 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Monetary Authority of Singapore   
GUIDELINES TO   
MAS NOTICE 626   
ON PREVENTION OF   
MONEY LAUNDERING  
AND COUNTERING THE  
FINANCING OF  
TERRORISM  
28 MARCH 2024 
  
    
  
  
Last revised on 18 October 2024  


 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
  
1   
Introduction ....................................................................................... 1 
2  
Notice Paragraph 2 – Definitions, Clarifications and Examples ........ 5 
4  
Notice Paragraph 4 – Assessing Risks and Applying a Risk-Based 
Approach .......................................................................................... 8 
5  
Notice Paragraph 5 – New Products, Practices and Technologies . 13 
6  
Notice Paragraph 6 – Customer Due Diligence .............................. 14 
7   
Notice Paragraph 7 – Simplified Customer Due Diligence .............. 29 
8  
Notice Paragraph 8 – Enhanced Customer Due Diligence ............. 31 
9   
Notice Paragraph 9 – Reliance on Third Parties ............................. 38 
10   
Notice Paragraph 10 – Correspondent Banking and Similar 
Services .......................................................................................... 40 
11   
Notice Paragraph 11 – Wire Transfers ........................................... 42 
12   
Notice Paragraph 12 – Record Keeping ......................................... 44 
14   
Notice Paragraph 14 – Suspicious Transactions Reporting ............ 45 
15   
Notice Paragraph 15 – Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and 
Training ........................................................................................... 47 
I  
       Other Key Topics - Guidance to Banks on Proliferation Financing . 51 
II  
Useful Links .................................................................................... 53 
APPENDIX A – Examples of CDD Information for Customers (Including Legal ....... 54 
Persons/Arrangements) .................................................................. 54 
APPENDIX B – Examples of Suspicious Transactions ............................................ 58 
 
  
For ease of reference, the chapter numbers in these Guidelines mirror the 
corresponding paragraph numbers in the MAS Notice 626 on Prevention of Money 
Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism - Banks (e.g. Chapter 2 of the 
Guidelines provides guidance in relation to paragraph 2 of the Notice). Not every 
paragraph in the Notice has a corresponding paragraph in these Guidelines and this 
explains why not all chapter numbers are utilised in these Guidelines.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
1  
  
 
1   
Introduction  
  
1-1  
These Guidelines provide guidance to all banks on the requirements in MAS 
Notice 626 on Prevention of Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of 
Terrorism – Banks (“the Notice”). These Guidelines should be read in conjunction 
with the Notice.  
  
1-2  
The expressions used in these Guidelines have the same meanings as those 
found in the Notice, except where expressly defined in these Guidelines or where 
the context otherwise requires. For the purposes of these Guidelines, a reference 
to “CDD measures” shall mean the measures as required by paragraphs 6, 7 and 
8 of the Notice.  
  
1-3  
The degree of observance with these Guidelines by a bank may have an impact 
on the Authority’s overall risk assessment of the bank, including the quality of its 
board and senior management oversight, governance, internal controls and risk 
management.  
  
  
1-4          Key Concepts    
 
 
Money Laundering   
  
1-4-1  
Money laundering (“ML”) is a process intended to mask the benefits derived from 
criminal conduct so that they appear to have originated from a legitimate source. 
Singapore’s primary legislation to combat ML is the Corruption, Drug Trafficking 
and Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992. A bank should refer 
to the Commercial Affairs Department’s (“CAD”) website for more information.  
  
 
1-4-2  
Generally, the process of ML comprises three stages, namely ―  
  
(a) Placement – The physical or financial disposal of the benefits derived from 
criminal conduct.  
  
(b) Layering – The separation of these benefits from their original source by 
creating layers of financial transactions designed to disguise the ultimate 
source and transfer of these benefits.  
  
(c) Integration – The provision of apparent legitimacy to the benefits derived from 
criminal conduct. If the layering process succeeds, the integration schemes 
place the laundered funds back into the economy so that they re-enter the 
financial system appearing to be legitimate funds.  
  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
2  
  
 
  
Terrorism Financing   
1-4-3  
Acts of terrorism seek to influence or compel governments into a particular course 
of action or to intimidate the public or a section of the public. Banks are reminded 
of the definitions of terrorism set out in the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) 
Act 2002 (“TSOFA”) and the United Nations (Anti-terrorism Measures) Regulations 
(Rg. 1).  
  
1-4-4  
Terrorists require funds to carry out acts of terrorism, and terrorism financing (“TF”) 
is the act of providing these funds. Such funds may be derived from criminal 
activities such as robbery, drug-trafficking, kidnapping, extortion, fraud or hacking 
of online accounts. In such cases, there may be an element of ML involved to 
disguise the source of funds.   
  
1-4-5  
However, terrorist acts and organisations may also be financed from legitimate 
sources such as donations from charities, legitimate business operations, self-
funding by individuals etc. Coupled with the fact that TF need not always involve 
large sums of money, TF can be hard to detect and banks should remain vigilant.  
  
1-4-6  
Singapore’s primary legislation to combat TF is the TSOFA. Banks may refer to 
the Inter-Ministry Committee on Terrorist Designation’s (“IMC-TD”) website for 
more information.   
  
  
 
  
The Three Lines of Defence  
1-4-7  
Each bank is reminded that the ultimate responsibility and accountability for 
ensuring compliance with anti-money laundering and countering the financing of 
terrorism (“AML/CFT”) laws, regulations and notices rests with its board of 
directors and senior management.  
  
1-4-8  
A bank’s board of directors and senior management are responsible for ensuring 
strong governance and sound AML/CFT risk management and controls at the 
bank. While certain responsibilities can be delegated to senior AML/CFT 
employees, final accountability rests with the bank’s board of directors and senior 
management. A bank should ensure a strong compliance culture throughout its 
organisation, where the board of directors and senior management set the right 
tone. The board of directors and senior management should set a clear risk 
appetite and ensure a compliance culture where financial crime is not acceptable.  
  
1-4-9  
Business units (e.g. front office, customer-facing functions) constitute the first line 
of defence in charge of identifying, assessing and controlling the ML/TF risks of 
their business. The second line of defence includes the AML/CFT compliance 
function, as well as other support functions such as operations, human resource 
or technology, which work together with the AML/CFT compliance function to 
identify ML/TF risks when they process transactions or applications or deploy 
systems or technology. The third line of defence is the bank’s internal audit 
function.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
3  
  
1-4-10  As part of the first line of defence, business units require robust controls to detect 
illicit activities. They should be allocated sufficient resources to perform this 
function effectively. The bank’s policies, procedures and controls on AML/CFT 
should be clearly specified in writing, and communicated to all relevant employees 
and officers in the business units. The bank should adequately train employees 
and officers to be aware of their obligations, and provide instructions  
as well as guidance on how to ensure the bank’s compliance with prevailing 
AML/CFT laws, regulations and notices.  
  
1-4-11  As the core of the second line of defence, the AML/CFT compliance function is 
responsible for ongoing monitoring of the bank’s fulfilment of all AML/CFT duties 
by the bank. This implies sample testing and the review of exception reports.  The 
AML/CFT compliance function should alert the bank’s senior management or the 
board of directors if it believes that the employees or officers in the line 
departments are failing or have failed to adequately address ML/TF risks and 
concerns. Other support functions such as operations, human resource or 
technology also play a role to help mitigate the ML/TF risks that the bank faces.  
The AML/CFT compliance function is typically the contact point regarding all 
AML/CFT issues for domestic and foreign authorities, including supervisory 
authorities, law enforcement authorities and financial intelligence units.  
    
1-4-12 
 As the third line of defence, the bank’s internal audit function or an equivalent 
function plays an important role in independently evaluating the AML/CFT risk 
management framework and controls for purposes of reporting to the audit 
committee of the bank’s board of directors, or a similar oversight body. This 
independent evaluation is achieved through the internal audit or equivalent 
function’s periodic evaluations of the effectiveness of the bank’s compliance with 
prevailing AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls. A bank should establish 
policies for periodic AML/CFT internal audits covering areas such as ―  
  
(a) the adequacy of the bank’s AML/CFT policies, procedures and controls in 
identifying ML/TF risks, addressing the identified risks and complying with 
laws, regulations and notices;  
  
(b) the effectiveness of the bank’s employees and officers in implementing the 
bank’s policies, procedures and controls;   
  
(c) the effectiveness of the compliance oversight and quality control including 
parameters and criteria for transaction alerts; and   
  
(d) the effectiveness of the bank’s training of relevant employees and officers.  
  
  
 
  
Governance  
1-4-13  Strong board and senior management leadership is indispensable in the oversight 
of the development and implementation of a sound AML/CFT risk management 
framework across the bank. The board of directors and senior management should 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
4  
  
ensure that the bank’s processes are robust and there are adequate risk mitigating 
measures in place. The successful implementation and effective operation of a 
risk-based approach to AML/CFT depends on the bank’s employees and officers 
having a good understanding of the ML/TF risks inherent in the bank’s business.  
  
1-4-14  A bank’s board of directors and senior management should understand the ML/TF 
risks the bank is exposed to and how the bank’s AML/CFT control framework 
operates to mitigate those risks. This should involve the board and senior 
management ―  
  
(a) receiving sufficient, frequent and objective information to form an accurate 
picture of the ML/TF risks including emerging or new ML/TF risks, which the 
bank is exposed to through its activities and individual business relations;  
  
(b) receiving sufficient and objective information to assess whether the bank’s 
AML/CFT controls are adequate and effective;   
  
(c) receiving information on legal and regulatory developments and the impact 
these have on the bank’s AML/CFT framework; and  
  
(d) ensuring that processes are in place to escalate important decisions that 
directly impact the ability of the bank to address and control ML/TF risks, 
especially where AML/CFT controls are assessed to be inadequate or 
ineffective.  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
5  
  
 
2  
Notice Paragraph 2 – Definitions, Clarifications and Examples  
 
  
Connected Party  
  
2-1  
The term “partnership” as it appears in the definition of “connected parties” 
includes foreign partnerships. The term “manager” as it appears in limb (b) of the 
definition of “connected parties” takes reference from section 2(1) of the Limited 
Liability Partnerships Act 2005 and section 28 of the Limited Partnerships Act 
2008.  
  
2-2  
Examples of natural persons with executive authority in a company include the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. An example of a natural person with 
executive authority in a partnership is the Managing Partner.  
  
  
 
  
Customer  
2-3  
When performing Customer Due Diligence (“CDD”) measures in the scenarios 
below, the following approaches may be adopted:  
  
(a) Portfolio Managers  
A 
bank may encounter cases where, to its knowledge, the customer is a 
manager of a portfolio of assets and who is operating the account in that 
capacity. In such cases, the underlying investors of the portfolio shall be 
beneficial owners within the meaning of the Notice.  
  
However, the Authority recognises that a bank may not be able to perform 
CDD measures on the underlying investors. For instance, the portfolio 
manager may be reluctant, for commercial reasons, to reveal information on 
the underlying investors to the bank. In such circumstances, the bank should 
evaluate the risks arising from each case and determine the appropriate CDD 
measures to take. The bank may consider whether simplified CDD (“SCDD”) 
measures could be applied to underlying investors under paragraph 7 of the 
Notice. However, where the customer falls within paragraph 6.16 of the Notice, 
the bank is exempted from making inquiries about the existence of such 
underlying investors (i.e. beneficial owners). Therefore, the bank does not 
need to identify and verify such underlying investors.   
  
(b) Credit or Charge Card Customers  
Where a bank issues a credit card or a charge card as defined in section 56 of 
the Banking Act 1970, or a particular type of credit card or charge card defined 
in regulation 2 of the Banking (Credit Card and Charge Card) Regulations 2013 
(such as a business card, business card with no personal liability, corporate 
card, guarantee card, corporate card with no personal liability, corporate 
purchasing card, guaranteed credit card or guaranteed charge card), the 
following are customers for the purposes of the Notice:  
  
(i) 
the principal credit card or charge card holder;  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
6  
  
(ii) 
any supplementary credit card or charge card holder;  
(iii) 
any employee to whom the business card is issued;  
(iv) 
the sole proprietor or partnership which bears liability for the business 
card issued;  
(v) 
any employee or officer of a body corporate to whom the corporate card 
is issued, and the body corporate; and  
(vi) 
the guarantor of any guaranteed credit card or guaranteed charge card.  
  
A 
merchant for whom the bank opens or maintains an account (including a 
ledger account) for the purchase of goods by, or provision of services to, any 
person from the merchant, using any credit card or charge card, should be 
considered a customer for the purposes of the Notice.   
  
(c) Location of Relationship Management  
Given the globalised nature of modern banking, it may often be the case that 
a bank’s relationship and transactions with a particular customer is managed 
by a bank employee or officer based in one country or jurisdiction but the 
account itself is held with an office in another country or jurisdiction for 
bookkeeping purposes. The Authority will generally look at the substance of 
the relationship management as a whole. A bank should perform the 
applicable CDD measures if in substance, the relationship or account is 
managed by an employee or officer of the bank in Singapore even though the 
account is booked in another country or jurisdiction. However, the bank may 
rely on the CDD measures carried out by its related entity (or in the case of a 
branch network, another branch of the bank) in accordance with paragraph 9 
of the Notice.  
  
  
 
  
Financial Advice  
2-4  
The bank need not perform the CDD measures where the bank solely prospects 
natural persons, legal persons or legal arrangements, without the provision of 
financial advice.  
  
  
 
  
Legal Arrangements  
2-5  
In relation to the definition of “legal arrangement” in the Notice, examples of legal 
arrangements are trust, fiducie, treuhand and fideicomiso.  
  
  
 
  
Legal Persons  
2-6  
In relation to the definition of “legal person” in the Notice, examples of legal 
persons are companies, bodies corporate, foundations, anstalt, partnerships, joint 
ventures or associations.  
  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
7  
  
 
  
Officer  
2-7  
A reference to “officer” refers to a bank’s board of directors and senior 
management.  
  
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
8  
  
4  
Notice Paragraph 4 – Assessing Risks and Applying a Risk-Based Approach  
  
 
 
  
Countries or Jurisdictions of its Customers  
4-1  
In relation to a customer who is a natural person, this refers to the nationality and 
place of domicile, business or work. For a customer who is a legal person or 
arrangement, this refers to both the country or jurisdiction of establishment, 
incorporation, or registration, and, if different, the country or jurisdiction of 
operations as well.  
  
  
 
  
Other Relevant Authorities in Singapore  
4-2  
Examples include law enforcement authorities (e.g. Singapore Police Force, 
Commercial Affairs Department, Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau) and other 
government authorities (e.g. Attorney General’s Chambers, Ministry of Home 
Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Law).  
  
  
 
  
Risk Assessment  
4-3  
In addition to assessing the ML/TF risks presented by an individual customer, a 
bank shall identify and assess ML/TF risks on an enterprise-wide level. This shall 
include a consolidated assessment of the bank’s ML/TF risks that exist across all 
its business units, product lines and delivery channels. The enterprise-wide ML/TF 
risk assessment relates to a bank in Singapore in the following ways:    
  
(a) A bank incorporated in Singapore shall take into account the ML/TF risks of its 
branches and subsidiaries, including those outside Singapore, as part of its 
consolidated assessment of its enterprise-wide ML/TF risks.    
  
(b) The Singapore branch of a bank incorporated outside Singapore may refer to 
an enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment performed by the head office, group 
or regional AML/CFT function, provided that the assessment adequately 
reflects the ML/TF risks faced in the context of its operations in Singapore.   
  
4-4 
The enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment is intended to enable the bank to 
better understand its overall vulnerability to ML/TF risks and forms the basis for 
the bank’s overall risk-based approach.  
  
4-5 
A bank’s senior management shall approve its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk 
assessment and relevant business units should give their full support and active 
co-operation to the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment.  
  
4-6 
In conducting an enterprise-wide risk assessment, the broad ML/TF risk factors 
that the bank should consider include ―  
  
(a) in relation to its customers ―  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
9  
  
  
(i) target customer markets and segments;  
  
(ii) profile and number of customers identified as higher risk;  
  
(iii) volumes and sizes of its customers’ transactions and funds transfers, 
considering the usual activities and the risk profiles of its customers;  
  
(b) in relation to the countries or jurisdictions its customers are from or in, or where 
the bank has operations in ―  
  
(i) countries or jurisdictions the bank is exposed to, either through its own 
activities (including where its branches and subsidiaries operate in) or the 
activities of its customers (including the bank’s network of correspondent 
banking relationships), especially countries or jurisdictions with relatively 
higher levels of corruption, organised crime or inadequate AML/CFT 
measures, as identified by the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”);  
  
(ii) when assessing ML/TF risks of countries and jurisdictions, the following 
criteria may be considered:  
  
- 
evidence of adverse news or relevant public criticism of a country or 
jurisdiction, including FATF public documents on High Risk and 
Noncooperative jurisdictions;  
  
- 
independent and public assessment of the country’s or jurisdiction’s 
overall AML/CFT regime such as FATF or FATF-Styled Regional 
Bodies’ (“FSRBs”) Mutual Evaluation reports and the IMF/World Bank 
Financial Sector Assessment Programme Reports or Reports on the 
Observance of Standards and Codes for guidance on the country’s or 
jurisdiction’s AML/CFT measures;  
  
- 
the AML/CFT laws, regulations and standards of the country or 
jurisdiction;   
  
- 
implementation standards (including quality and effectiveness of 
supervision) of the AML/CFT regime;  
  
- 
whether the country or jurisdiction is a member of international groups 
that only admit countries or jurisdictions which meet certain AML/CFT 
benchmarks;  
  
- 
contextual factors, such as political stability, maturity and sophistication 
of the regulatory and supervisory regime, level of corruption, financial 
inclusion etc;  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
10  
  
(c) in relation to the products, services, transactions and delivery channels of the 
bank ―  
  
(i) the nature, scale, diversity and complexity of the bank’s business activities;  
  
(ii) the nature of products and services offered by the bank; and  
  
(iii) the delivery channels, including the extent to which the bank deals directly 
with the customer, relies on third parties to perform CDD measures or uses 
technology.  
 
4-7 
The scale and scope of the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment should be 
commensurate with the nature and complexity of the bank’s business.  
  
4-8 
As far as possible, a bank’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment should entail 
both qualitative and quantitative analyses to ensure that the bank accurately 
understands its exposure to ML/TF risks. A quantitative analysis of the bank’s 
exposure to ML/TF risks should involve evaluating data on the bank’s activities 
using the applicable broad risk factors set out in paragraph 4-6.  
 
4-8A 
A bank participating in COSMIC should consider how information received through 
COSMIC may be relevant for the bank’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment. 
Where such information is relevant to the ML/TF risk factors set out in paragraph 
4-6 above, the bank should take into account such information as part of its 
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment. 
  
4-9 
As required by paragraph 4.1(d) of the Notice, a bank shall take into account all its 
existing products, services, transactions and delivery channels offered as part of 
its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment.   
  
4-10 
In assessing its overall ML/TF risks, a bank should make its own determination as 
to the risk weights to be given to the individual factor or combination of factors.   
  
  
 
  
Singapore’s National ML/TF Risk Assessment (“NRA”) Report  
4-11  
A bank should incorporate the results of Singapore’s NRA Report into its 
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment process. When performing the enterprise-
wide risk assessment, a bank should take into account any financial or non-
financial sector that has been identified as presenting higher ML/TF risks. A bank 
should consider the NRA results and its enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment 
results when assessing the ML/TF risks presented by customers from specific 
sectors.   
  
4-12  
The NRA also identifies certain prevailing crime types as presenting higher ML/TF 
risks. A bank should consider these results when assessing its enterprise-wide 
ML/TF risks of products, services, transactions and delivery channels and whether 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
11  
  
it is more susceptible to the higher risk prevailing crime types. Where appropriate, 
a bank should also take these results into account as part of the bank’s ongoing 
monitoring of the conduct of customers’ accounts and the bank’s scrutiny of 
customers’ transactions.  
  
  
 
  
Risk Mitigation  
4-13  
The nature and extent of AML/CFT risk management systems and controls 
implemented should be commensurate with the ML/TF risks identified via the 
enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment. A bank shall put in place adequate 
policies, procedures and controls to mitigate the ML/TF risks. Where relevant, 
information received through COSMIC should be used by a prescribed FI to meet 
its obligations under paragraph 4.3 of the Notice. 
 
4-14  
A bank’s enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment serves to guide the allocation of 
AML/CFT resources within the bank.  
  
4-15  
A bank should assess the effectiveness of its risk mitigation procedures and 
controls by monitoring the following:  
  
(a) the ability to identify changes in a customer profile (e.g. Politically Exposed 
Persons status) and transactional behaviour observed in the course of its 
business;  
  
(b) the potential for abuse of new business initiatives, products, practices and 
services for ML/TF purposes;  
  
(c) the compliance arrangements (through its internal audit or quality assurance 
processes or external review);  
  
(d) the balance between the use of technology-based or automated solutions with 
that of manual or people-based processes, for AML/CFT risk management 
purposes;  
  
(e) the coordination between AML/CFT compliance and other functions of the 
bank;  
  
(f) the adequacy of training provided to employees and officers and awareness of 
the employees and officers on AML/CFT matters;  
  
(g) the process of management reporting and escalation of pertinent AML/CFT 
issues to the bank’s senior management;  
  
(h) the coordination between the bank and regulatory or law enforcement 
agencies; and  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
12  
  
(i) the performance of third parties relied upon by the bank to carry out CDD 
measures.   
 
 
Documentation  
 
4-16  
The documentation should include ―  
  
(a) the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment by the bank;  
  
(b) details of the implementation of the AML/CFT risk management systems and 
controls as guided by the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment;  
  
(c) the reports to senior management on the results of the enterprise-wide ML/TF 
risk assessment and the implementation of the AML/CFT risk management 
systems and controls; and  
  
(d) details of the frequency of review of the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk 
assessment.  
  
4-17  
A bank should ensure that the enterprise-wide ML/TF risk assessment and the risk 
assessment information are made available to the Authority upon request.  
  
  
Frequency of Review  
4-18  
To keep its enterprise-wide risk assessments up-to-date, a bank should review its 
risk assessment at least once every two years or when material trigger events 
occur, whichever is earlier. Such material trigger events include, but are not limited 
to, the acquisition of new customer segments or delivery channels, or the launch 
of new products and services by the bank. The results of these reviews should be 
documented and approved by senior management even if there are no significant 
changes to the bank’s enterprise-wide risk assessment.  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
13  
  
 
5  
Notice Paragraph 5 – New Products, Practices and Technologies  
  
5-1  
International developments of new technologies to provide financial services are 
fast-changing and growing at an accelerated pace. A bank shall keep abreast of 
such new developments and the ML/TF risks associated with them.  
  
5-2  
A bank’s assessment of ML/TF risks in relation to new products, practices and 
technologies is separate from, and in addition to, the bank’s assessment of other 
risks such as credit risks, operational risks or market risks. For example, in the 
assessment of ML/TF risks, a bank should pay attention to new products, practices 
and technologies that deal with customer funds or the movement of such funds. 
These assessments should be approved by senior management and heads of 
business, risk and compliance.  
  
5-3 
An example of a “new delivery mechanism” as set out in paragraph 5 of the Notice 
is mobile banking.  
  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
14  
  
6  
Notice Paragraph 6 – Customer Due Diligence  
 
6-A 
Banks participating in COSMIC  
 
6-A-1 
Where relevant, a bank participating in COSMIC should take into consideration the 
information it has received through COSMIC, including the results of any risk 
assessments it has performed under MAS Notice FSM-N02 on “Prevention of 
Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism – Financial 
Institutions’ Information Sharing Platform” (“MAS Notice FSM-N02”), when 
performing the risk mitigation measures under paragraphs 6, 7, and 8 of the Notice. 
For the avoidance of doubt, when performing such measures when establishing 
new business relations with a customer, the bank need not consider any 
information that is no longer available in COSMIC (e.g. Listings (as defined in MAS 
Notice FSM-N02) which are no longer available in COSMIC at the time of 
establishing new business relations with that customer). 
 
Notice Paragraph 6.2  
 
6-1   
Where There Are Reasonable Grounds for Suspicion prior to the 
Establishment of Business Relations or Undertaking any Transaction 
without opening an Account  
  
6-1-1  
In arriving at its decision for each case, a bank should take into account the 
relevant facts (including information that may be made available by the authorities 
and, where the bank is participating in COSMIC, any relevant information it has 
received through COSMIC) and conduct a proper risk assessment.   
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.3 to 6.4  
 
6-2          When CDD is to be Performed – Linked Transactions  
  
6-2-1  
Paragraph 6.4 of the Notice is applicable to a bank when it undertakes transactions 
for customers who or which have not established business relations with the bank.    
  
6-2-2   
A bank should monitor whether the related or linked transactions exceed the 
thresholds set out in paragraph 6.3(b) or paragraph 6.3(c) of the Notice and should 
take these into consideration when formulating scenarios and parameters.  
  
6-2-3  
Two or more transactions may be related or linked if they involve the same sender 
or recipient. A bank should be aware that transactions may be entered into 
consecutively to deliberately restructure an otherwise single transaction, with the 
intention of circumventing applicable thresholds set out in the Notice in relation to 
the circumstances set out in paragraphs 6.3(b) or (c).   
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
15  
  
6-2A 
When CDD is to be Performed – Other ML/TF suspicions and doubts about 
veracity or adequacy of information previously obtained  
 
6-2A-1 
In relation to the circumstances set out in paragraphs 6.3(f) or 6.3(g), a bank 
should perform the measures as required by paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the Notice 
when there is a suspicion of ML/TF (notwithstanding that the bank would not 
otherwise be required by the Notice to perform such measures) or the bank has 
doubts about the veracity or adequacy of any information previously obtained. This 
applies regardless of whether such suspicion or doubt arises from information that 
it has received through COSMIC or otherwise. 
 
6-2A-2 
A bank participating in COSMIC should, in the course of undertaking the risk 
assessments required under paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 or  6.5 of MAS Notice FSM-N02, 
pay particular attention to whether the information it has received through COSMIC 
would trigger its obligations under paragraphs 6.3(f) and 6.3(g) of the Notice, and 
if so, perform the measures as required under paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the Notice. 
 
6-2A-3 
For the avoidance of doubt, a bank participating in COSMIC that has received new 
information through COSMIC and assesses that its obligations under paragraphs 
6.3(f) or 6.3(g) of the Notice are triggered, must perform the measures as required 
by paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the Notice. This is so even if the bank has earlier 
assessed that its obligations under paragraphs 6.3(f) or 6.3(g) of the Notice have 
been triggered and has performed the measures as required by paragraphs 6, 7 
and 8 of the Notice, prior to receiving the new information through COSMIC. 
 
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.5 to 6.18  
 
6-3          CDD Measures under Paragraphs 6.5 to 6.18  
  
6-3-1   
When relying on documents, a bank should be aware that the best documents to 
use to verify the identity of the customer are those most difficult to obtain illicitly or 
to counterfeit. These may include government-issued identity cards or passports, 
reports from independent company registries, published or audited annual reports 
and other reliable sources of information. The rigour of the verification process 
should be commensurate with the customer’s risk profile.  
  
6-3-2  
A bank should exercise greater caution when dealing with an unfamiliar or a new 
customer. Apart from obtaining the identification information required by paragraph 
6.6 of the Notice, a bank should (if not already obtained as part of its account 
opening process) also obtain additional information on the customer’s background 
such as occupation, employer’s name, nature of business, range of annual income, 
other related accounts with the same bank and whether the customer holds or has 
held a prominent public function. Such additional identification information enables 
a bank to obtain better knowledge of its customer’s risk profile, as well as the 
purpose and intended nature of the account.  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
16  
  
  
  
Notice Paragraph 6.6  
 
6-4         Identification of Customer  
   
6-4-1   
With respect to paragraph 6.6(c) of the Notice, a P.O. box address should only be 
used for jurisdictions where the residential address (e.g. street name or house 
number) is not applicable or available in the local context.  
  
6-4-2  
A bank should obtain a customer’s contact details such as personal, office or work 
telephone numbers.   
  
  
Notice Paragraph 6.8  
 
6-5 
Identification of Customer that is a Legal Person or Legal Arrangement  
   
6-5-1  
Under paragraph 6 and paragraph 8 of the Notice, a bank is required to identify 
and screen all the connected parties of a customer. However, a bank may verify 
their identities using a risk-based approach1. A bank is reminded of its obligations 
under the Notice to identify connected parties and remain apprised of any changes 
to connected parties.   
  
6-5-2  
Identification of connected parties may be done using publicly available sources or 
databases such as company registries, annual reports or based on substantiated 
information provided by the customers.    
  
6-5-3  
In relation to legal arrangements, a bank shall perform CDD measures on the 
customer by identifying the settlors, trustees, the protector (if any), the 
beneficiaries (including every beneficiary that falls within a designated 
characteristic or class) and any natural person exercising ultimate ownership, 
ultimate control or ultimate effective control over the trust (including through a chain 
of control or ownership), as required by paragraph 6.14 of the Notice.   
  
  
 
 
 
1 For the guidance on SCDD measures in relation to the identification and verification of the identities of connected parties 
of a customer, banks are to refer to paragraph 7-3 of these Guidelines.  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
17  
  
Notice Paragraph 6.9  
 
6-6  
Verification of Identity of Customer   
  
6-6-1  
Where the customer is a natural person, a bank should obtain identification 
documents that contain a clear photograph of that customer.  
  
6-6-2  
In verifying the identity of a customer, a bank may obtain the following documents:  
  
(a) Natural Persons ―  
  
(i) name, unique identification number, date of birth and nationality based on 
a valid passport or a national identity card that bears a photograph of the 
customer; and  
  
(ii) residential address based on national identity card, recent utility or 
telephone bill, bank statement or correspondence from a government 
agency;  
  
(b) Legal Persons or Legal Arrangements ―  
  
(i) name, legal form, proof of existence and constitution based on certificate 
of incorporation, certificate of good standing, partnership agreement, trust 
deed, constitutional document, certificate of registration or any other 
documentation from a reliable independent source; and  
  
(ii) powers that regulate and bind the legal person or arrangement based on 
memorandum and articles of association, and board resolution authorising 
the opening of an account and appointment of authorised signatories.  
  
6-6-3 
Further guidance on verification of different types of customers (including legal 
persons or legal arrangements) is set out in Appendix A.  
  
6-6-4 
In exceptional circumstances where the bank is unable to retain a copy of the 
documentation used to verify the customer’s identity, the bank should record the 
following:  
  
(a) information that the original documentation had served to verify;  
  
(b) title and description of the original documentation produced to the bank’s 
employee or officer for verification, including any particular or unique features 
or condition of that documentation (e.g. whether it is worn out, or damaged);  
  
(c) reasons why a copy of that documentation could not be made; and  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
18  
  
(d) name of the bank’s employee or officer who carried out the verification, a 
statement by that employee or officer certifying verification of the information 
against the documentation and the date of the verification.  
   
Reliability of Information and Documentation  
  
6-6-5  
Where a bank obtains data, documents or information from the customer or a third 
party, it should ensure that such data, documents or information is current at the 
time they are provided to the bank.  
  
6-6-6  
Where the customer is unable to produce an original document, a bank may 
consider accepting a copy of the document ―  
  
(a) that is certified to be a true copy by a suitably qualified person (e.g. a notary 
public, a lawyer or certified public or professional accountant); or  
  
(b) if a bank staff independent of the customer relationship has confirmed that he 
has sighted the original document.  
  
6-6-7  
Where a document is in a foreign language, appropriate steps should be taken by 
a bank to be reasonably satisfied that the document does in fact provide evidence 
of the customer’s identity. The bank should ensure that any document that is 
critical for performance of any measures required under the Notice is translated 
into English by a suitably qualified translator. Alternatively, the bank may rely on a 
translation of such document by a bank staff independent of the customer 
relationship who is conversant in that foreign language. This is to allow all 
employees and officers of the bank involved in the performance of any measures 
required under the Notice to understand the contents of the documents, for 
effective determination and evaluation of ML/TF risks associated with the 
customer.   
  
6-6-8  
The bank should ensure that documents obtained for performing any measures 
required under the Notice are clear and legible. This is important for the 
establishment of a customer’s identity, particularly in situations where business 
relations are established without face-to-face contact.  
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.10 to 6.12 
 
6-7  
Identification and Verification of Identity of Natural Person Appointed to Act 
on a Customer’s Behalf  
   
6-7-1  
Appropriate documentary evidence of a customer’s appointment of a natural 
person to act on its behalf includes a board resolution or similar authorisation 
documents.   
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
19  
  
6-7-2  
Where there is a long list of natural persons appointed to act on behalf of the 
customer (e.g. a list comprising more than 10 authorised signatories), the bank 
should verify at a minimum those natural persons to whom the customer has 
assigned the authority to operate the customer’s account with the bank or move 
the funds in and out of that account.    
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.13 to 6.17  
 
6-8  
Identification and Verification of Identity of Beneficial Owner  
   
6-8-1  
A bank should note that measures listed under paragraph 6.14(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) as 
well as paragraph 6.14(b)(i) and (ii) of the Notice are not alternative measures but 
are cascading measures with each to be used where the immediately preceding 
measure has been applied but has not resulted in the identification of a beneficial 
owner.  
  
6-8-2  
In relation to paragraph 6.14(a)(i) and (b)(i) of the Notice, when identifying the 
natural person who ultimately owns the legal person or legal arrangement, the 
shareholdings within the ownership structure of the legal person or legal 
arrangement should be considered. It may be based on a threshold (e.g. any 
person owning more than 25% of the legal person or legal arrangement, taking 
into account any aggregated ownership for companies with cross-shareholdings).  
  
6-8-3  
A natural person who does not meet the shareholding threshold referred to in 
paragraph 6-8-2 above but who controls the customer (e.g. through exercising 
significant influence), is a beneficial owner under the Notice.  
  
6-8-4  
A bank may also consider obtaining an undertaking or declaration from the 
customer on the identity of, and the information relating to, the beneficial owner.  
Notwithstanding the obtaining of such an undertaking or declaration, the bank 
remains responsible for complying with its obligations under the Notice to take 
reasonable measures to verify the identity of the beneficial owner by, for example, 
researching publicly available information on the beneficial owner or arranging a 
face-to-face meeting with the beneficial owner, to corroborate the undertaking or 
declaration provided by the customer.   
  
6-8-5  
Where the customer is not a natural person and has a complex ownership or 
control structure, a bank should obtain enough information to sufficiently 
understand if there are legitimate reasons for such ownership or control structure.  
  
6-8-6  
A bank should take particular care when dealing with companies with bearer 
shares, since the beneficial ownership is difficult to establish. For such companies, 
a bank should adopt procedures to establish the identities of the beneficial owners 
of such shares and ensure that the bank is notified whenever there is a change of 
beneficial owner of such shares. At a minimum, these procedures should require 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
20  
  
the bank to obtain an undertaking in writing from the beneficial owner of such 
bearer shares stating that the bank shall be immediately notified if the shares are 
transferred to another natural person, legal person or legal arrangement. 
Depending on its risk assessment of the customer, the bank may require that the 
bearer shares be held by a named custodian, with an undertaking from the 
custodian that the bank will be notified of any changes to ownership of these 
shares or the named custodian.  
  
6-8-7 
For the purposes of paragraph 6.16 of the Notice, where the customer is a legal 
person publicly listed on a stock exchange and subject to regulatory disclosure 
requirements relating to adequate transparency in respect of its beneficial owners 
(imposed through stock exchange rules, law or other enforceable means), it is not 
necessary to identify and verify the identities of the beneficial owners of the 
customer.   
  
6-8-8  
In determining if the foreign stock exchange imposes regulatory disclosure and 
adequate transparency requirements, the bank should put in place an internal 
assessment process with clear criteria, taking into account, amongst others, the 
country risk and the level of the country’s compliance with the FATF standards.  
  
6-8-9 
Where the customer is a majority-owned subsidiary of a publicly listed legal 
person, it is not necessary to identify and verify the identities of beneficial owners 
of the customer. However, for such a customer, if there are other non-publicly listed 
legal persons who own more than 25% of the customer or who otherwise control 
the customer, the beneficial owners of such non-publicly listed legal persons 
should be identified and verified.  
  
 
6-8-10  Deleted with effect from 30 November 2015.  
  
 
6-8-11  Deleted with effect from 30 November 2015.  
  
6-8-12  Where a customer is one which falls within paragraph 6.16 of the Notice, this does 
not in itself constitute an adequate analysis of low ML/TF risks for the purpose of 
performing SCDD measures under paragraph 7 of the Notice.  
   
 
Notice Paragraph 6.18 
 
6-9  
Information on Purpose and Intended Nature of Business Relations  
  
6-9-1  
The measures taken by a bank to understand the purpose and intended nature of 
business relations should be commensurate with the complexity of the customer’s 
business and risk profile.  For higher risk customers, a bank should seek to 
understand upfront the expected account activity (e.g. types of transactions likely 
to pass through, expected amount for each transaction, names of counterparties) 
and consider, as part of ongoing monitoring, whether the activity corresponds with 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
21  
  
the stated purpose of the accounts.  This will enable a more effective ongoing 
monitoring of the customer’s business relations and transactions.  
  
   
Notice Paragraphs 6.19 to 6.26 
 
 6-10  
Ongoing Monitoring  
  
6-10-1  Ongoing monitoring of business relations is a fundamental feature of an effective 
AML/CFT risk management system. Ongoing monitoring should be conducted in 
relation to all business relations, but the bank may adjust the extent and depth of 
monitoring of a customer according to the customer’s ML/TF risk profile. The 
adequacy of monitoring systems and the factors leading the bank to adjust the 
level of monitoring should be reviewed regularly for effectiveness in mitigating the 
bank’s ML/TF risks. A bank participating in COSMIC should also consider how 
information received through COSMIC could be used as a source of information 
on a customer as part of its ongoing monitoring of business relations with the 
customer. 
  
6-10-2  A bank should make further enquiries when a customer performs frequent and 
cumulatively large transactions without any apparent or visible economic or lawful 
purpose. For example, frequent transfers of funds to the same recipient over a 
short period of time, multiple deposits of cash such that the amount of each deposit 
is not substantial, but the total of which is substantial.   
  
6-10-3  Where there are indications, arising from information received through COSMIC 
or otherwise, that the risks associated with an existing business relations may have 
increased, the bank should request additional information and conduct a review of 
the customer’s risk profile in order to determine if additional measures are 
necessary.  
  
6-10-4  A key part of ongoing monitoring includes maintaining relevant and up-to-date 
CDD data, documents and information so that the bank can identify changes to 
the customer’s risk profile ―   
  
(a) for higher risk categories of customers, a bank should obtain updated CDD 
information (including updated copies of the customer’s passport or identity 
documents if these have expired), as part of its periodic CDD review, or upon 
the occurrence of a trigger event as deemed necessary by the bank, whichever 
is earlier; and    
  
(b) for all other risk categories of customers, a bank should obtain updated CDD 
information upon the occurrence of a trigger event.   
  
6-10-5  Examples of trigger events are when (i) a significant transaction takes place, (ii) a 
material change occurs in the way the customer’s account is operated, (iii) the 
bank’s policies, procedures or standards relating to the documentation of CDD 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
22  
  
information change substantially, and (iv) the bank becomes aware, whether 
arising from information received through COSMIC or otherwise, that it lacks 
sufficient information about the customer concerned, or that the information is not  
up-to-date.  
 
6-10-5A In relation to a bank participating in COSMIC, if, as a result of information received 
through COSMIC, the bank becomes aware that it lacks sufficient information 
about a customer, a natural person appointed to act on behalf of the customer, a 
connected party of the customer or a beneficial owner of the customer (collectively, 
“Key Individuals”) or that the information about the customer and its Key 
Individuals are not up-to-date, the bank should obtain updated CDD information 
and update its assessment whether the customer or any of its Key Individuals is a 
PEP or a family member or close associate of a PEP, or if the customer or its 
transactions otherwise presents higher ML/TF risk (and perform the necessary 
enhanced due diligence measures in paragraph 8.3 of the Notice if so). 
  
6-10-6  The frequency of CDD review may vary depending on each customer’s risk profile. 
Higher risk customers should be subject to more frequent periodic review (e.g. on 
an annual basis) to ensure that CDD information such as nationality, passport 
details, certificate of incumbency, ownership and control information that the bank 
has previously obtained remain relevant and up-to-date.  
  
6-10-7  In determining what would constitute suspicious, complex, unusually large or 
unusual pattern of transactions, a bank should consider, amongst others, 
international typologies and information obtained from law enforcement and other 
authorities that may point to jurisdiction-specific considerations. As part of ongoing 
monitoring, a bank should pay attention to transaction characteristics, such as ―  
  
(a) the nature of a transaction (e.g. abnormal size or frequency for that customer 
or peer group);   
  
(b) whether a series of transactions is conducted with the intent to avoid reporting 
thresholds (e.g. by structuring an otherwise single transaction into a number 
of cash transactions);  
  
(c) the geographic destination or origin of a payment (e.g. to or from a higher risk 
country); and  
  
(d) the parties concerned (e.g. a request to make a payment to or from a person 
on a sanctions list).  
  
6-10-8  A bank’s transaction monitoring processes or systems may vary in scope or 
sophistication (e.g. using manual spreadsheets to automated and complex 
systems). The degree of automation or sophistication of processes and systems 
depends on the size and complexity of the bank’s operations.   
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
23  
  
6-10-9  Nevertheless, the processes and systems used by the bank should provide its 
business units (e.g. front office and relationship managers) and compliance 
officers (including employees and officers who are tasked with conducting 
investigations) with timely information needed to identify, analyse and effectively 
monitor customer accounts for ML/TF. A bank participating in COSMIC should also 
ensure that its systems and processes for ongoing monitoring and to detect and 
report suspicious, complex, unusually large or unusual patterns of transactions, 
take into account information received through COSMIC.  
  
6-10-10 The transaction monitoring processes and systems should enable the bank to 
monitor multiple accounts of a customer holistically within a business unit and 
across business units to identify any suspicious transactions. In the event that a 
business unit discovers suspicious transactions in a customer’s account, such 
information should be shared across their business units (e.g. Private Banking and 
Retail Banking business units) to facilitate a holistic assessment of the ML/TF risks 
presented by the customer. Therefore, banks should have processes in place to 
share such information across business units. In addition, banks should perform 
trend analyses of transactions to identify unusual or suspicious transactions. 
Banks should also monitor transactions with parties in high risk countries or 
jurisdictions.    
 
6-10-11  In addition, banks should have processes in place to monitor related customer 
accounts holistically within and across business units, so as to better understand 
the risks associated with such customer groups, identify potential ML/TF risks and 
report suspicious transactions.     
  
6-10-12  The parameters and thresholds used by a bank to identify suspicious transactions 
should be properly documented and independently validated to ensure that they 
are appropriate to its operations and context. A bank should periodically review 
the appropriateness of the parameters and thresholds used in the monitoring 
process.  
 
6-10-13 Banks participating in COSMIC are reminded to:  
 
(a) comply with the requirements set out in paragraph 6.25 of the Notice if, after 
conducting the risk assessments required under paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 or 6.5 of 
MAS Notice FSM-N02, it determines that there are reasonable grounds for 
suspicion that a customer is connected with ML or TF, and considers it 
appropriate to retain the customer; and 
 
(b) comply with the requirements set out in paragraph 6.26 of the Notice, and the 
requirements in the Notice and MAS Notice FSM-N02 on documenting 
decisions to retain, terminate or deny establishment of business relations with 
a customer or relevant party. 
 
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
24  
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.27 to 6.29  
 
6-11  
CDD Measures for Non-Face-to-Face Business Relations  
   
6-11-1  A reference to “specific risks” in paragraph 6.27 of the Notice includes risks arising 
from establishing business relations and undertaking transactions according to 
instructions conveyed by customers over the internet, post, fax or telephone. A 
bank should note that applications and transactions undertaken across the internet 
may pose greater risks than other non-face-to-face business due to the following 
factors:  
  
(a) the ease of unauthorised access to the facility, across time zones and location;  
  
(b) the ease of making multiple fictitious applications without incurring extra cost 
or the risk of detection;  
  
(c) the absence of physical documents; and  
  
(d) the speed of electronic transactions,  
  
that may, taken together, aggravate the ML/TF risks.  
  
6-11-2  The measures taken by a bank for verification of an identity in respect of nonface-
to-face business relations with or transactions for the customer will depend on the 
nature and characteristics of the product or service provided and the customer’s 
risk profile.   
  
6-11-3  Where verification of identity is performed without face-to-face contact (e.g. 
electronically), a bank should apply additional checks to manage the risk of 
impersonation. The additional checks may consist of robust anti-fraud checks that 
the bank routinely undertakes as part of its existing procedures, which may include 
―  
  
(a) telephone contact with the customer at a residential or business number that 
can be verified independently;  
  
(b) confirmation of the customer’s address through an exchange of 
correspondence or other appropriate method;  
  
(c) subject to the customer’s consent, telephone confirmation of the customer’s 
employment status with his employer’s human resource department at a listed 
business number of the employer;  
  
(d) confirmation of the customer’s salary details by requiring the presentation of 
recent bank statements from another bank, where applicable;  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
25  
  
(e) provision of certified identification documents by lawyers or notaries public; or  
  
(f) requiring the customer to make an initial deposit into the account with the bank 
from funds held by the customer in an account with another bank in Singapore.  
  
  
Notice Paragraph 6.30  
 
6-12  
Reliance by Acquiring Bank on Measures Already Performed  
  
6-12-1  When a bank acquires the business of another financial institution (“FI”), either in 
whole or in part, it is not necessary for the identity of all existing customers to be 
verified again, provided that the requirements of paragraph 6.30 of the Notice are 
met. A bank shall maintain proper records of its due diligence review performed 
on the acquired business.  
  
6-12-2  Notwithstanding the reliance on identification and verification that has already 
been performed, an acquiring bank is responsible for its obligations under the 
Notice.  
  
6-12-3  When a bank acquires the business of another FI, either in whole or in part, the 
bank is reminded that in addition to complying with paragraph 6.30 of the Notice, 
it is also required to comply with ongoing monitoring requirements set out in 
paragraphs 6.19 to 6.26 of the Notice.   
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.32 to 6.34  
 
6-13       Timing for Verification  
  
6-13-1  With reference to paragraph 6.33 of the Notice, an example of when the deferral 
of completion of the verification is essential in order not to interrupt the normal 
conduct of business operations is securities trades, where timely execution of 
trades is critical given changing market conditions. One way a bank could 
effectively manage the ML/TF risks arising from the deferral of completion of 
verification is to put in place appropriate limits on the financial services available 
to the customer (e.g. limits on the number, type and value of transactions that can 
be effected) and institute closer monitoring procedures, until the verification has 
been completed.   
  
6-13-2  With reference to paragraph 6.34 of the Notice ―  
  
(a) the completion of verification should not exceed 30 business days after the 
establishment of business relations;  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
26  
  
(b) the bank should suspend business relations with the customer and refrain from 
carrying out further transactions (except to return funds to their sources, to the 
extent that this is possible) if such verification remains uncompleted 30 
business days after the establishment of business relations;   
  
(c) the bank should terminate business relations with the customer if such 
verification remains uncompleted 120 business days after the establishment 
of business relations; and  
  
(d) the bank should factor these time limitations in its policies, procedures and 
controls.  
  
  
Notice Paragraph 6.38  
 
6-14  
Existing Customers  
   
6-14-1  In relation to customer accounts which pre-date the coming into force of the current 
Notice, the bank should prioritise the remediation of higher risk customers.  
  
6-14-2 
In taking into account any previous measures as referred to in paragraph 6.38 of 
the Notice, a bank should consider whether ―  
  
(a) there has been any significant transaction undertaken, since the measures 
were last performed, having regard to the manner in which the account is 
ordinarily operated;  
  
(b) there is a material change, since the measures were last performed, in the way 
that business relations with the customer are conducted;  
  
(c) it lacks adequate identification information on a customer; and  
  
(d) there is a change in the ownership or control of the customer, or the persons 
authorised to act on behalf of the customer in its business relations with the 
bank.  
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 6.39 to 6.42  
 
6-15  
Screening  
   
6-15-1  Screening is intended to be a preventive measure. A bank is reminded that all 
parties identified pursuant to the Notice are required to be screened, irrespective 
of the risk profile of the customer.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
27  
  
6-15-2  Where screening results in a positive hit against sanctions lists, a bank is reminded 
of its obligations to freeze without delay and without prior notice, the funds or other 
assets of designated persons and entities that it has control over, so as to comply 
with applicable laws and regulations in Singapore, including the TSOFA, and the 
regulations issued under section 192 read with section 15(1)(b) of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2022 (“FSM Act”) relating to sanctions and freezing of 
assets of persons2 (“FSM Sanctions Regulations”). Any such assets should be 
reported promptly to the relevant authorities and a Suspicious Transaction Report 
(“STR”) should be filed.  
  
 
6-15-3  
A bank should put in place policies, procedures and controls that clearly set out  
―  
  
(a) the ML/TF information sources used by the bank for screening (including 
commercial databases used to identify adverse information on individuals and 
entities, individuals and entities covered under the FSM Sanctions 
Regulations, individuals and entities identified by other sources such as the 
bank’s head office or parent supervisory authority, lists and information 
provided by the Authority and relevant authorities in Singapore);  
  
(b) the roles and responsibilities of the bank’s employees involved in the 
screening, reviewing and dismissing of alerts, maintaining and updating of the 
various screening databases and escalating hits;   
  
(c) the frequency of review of such policies, procedures and controls;  
  
(d) the frequency of periodic screening;   
  
(e) how apparent matches from screening are to be resolved by the bank’s 
employees, including the process for determining that an apparent match is a 
positive hit and for dismissing an apparent match as a false hit; and  
  
(f) the steps to be taken by the bank’s employees for reporting positive hits to the 
bank’s senior management and to the relevant authorities.  
  
6-15-4  The level of automation used in the screening process should take into account 
the nature, size and risk profile of a bank’s business. A bank should be aware of 
any shortcomings in its automated screening systems. In particular, it is important 
to consider “fuzzy matching” to identify non-exact matches. The bank should 
ensure that the fuzzy matching process is calibrated to the risk profile of its 
business. As application of the fuzzy matching process is likely to result in the 
generation of an increased number of apparent matches which have to be 
 
2 Including the regulations issued under section 192 read with sections 15(1)(b) and 219(d) of the FSM Act. Please refer 
to the following link for the relevant Financial Services and Markets Regulations: https://mas.gov.sg/regulation/anti-money-
laundering/targeted-financial-sanctions/regulations-for-targeted-financial-sanctions 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
28  
  
checked, the bank’s employees will need to have access to CDD information to 
enable them to exercise their judgment in identifying true hits.   
  
6-15-5 
A bank should be aware that performing screening after business relations have 
been established could lead to a breach of relevant laws and regulations in 
Singapore relating to sanctioned parties. When the bank becomes aware of such 
breaches, it should immediately take the necessary actions and inform the relevant 
authorities.   
  
6-15-6  In screening periodically as required by paragraph 6.40(d) of the Notice, a bank 
should pay particular attention to changes in customer status (e.g. whether the 
customer has over time become subject to prohibitions and sanctions) or customer 
risks (e.g. a connected party of a customer, a beneficial owner of the customer or 
a natural person appointed to act on behalf of the customer subsequently becomes 
a Politically Exposed Person or presents higher ML/TF risks, or a customer 
subsequently becomes a Politically Exposed Person or presents higher ML/TF 
risks) and assess whether to subject the customer to the appropriate ML/TF risk 
mitigation measures (e.g. enhanced CDD measures).  
  
6-15-7  A bank should ensure that the identification information of a customer, a connected 
party of the customer, a natural person appointed to act on behalf of the customer 
and a beneficial owner of the customer is entered into the bank’s customer 
database for periodic name screening purposes. This will help the bank to promptly 
identify any existing customers who have subsequently become higher risk parties.   
  
6-15-8 
In determining the frequency of periodic name screening, a bank should consider 
its customers’ risk profile.   
  
6-15-9  The bank should ensure that it has adequate arrangements to perform screening 
of the bank’s customer database when there are changes to the lists of sanctioned 
individuals and entities, covered by the TSOFA, and the FSM Sanctions 
Regulations. The bank should implement “four-eye checks” on alerts from 
sanctions reviews before closing an alert, or conduct quality assurance checks on 
the closure of such alerts on a sample basis.  
  
6-15-10  With reference to paragraph 6.41 of the Notice, transaction screening should take 
place on a real-time basis [i.e. the screening or filtering of relevant payment 
instructions (e.g. MT103, MT 202) should be carried out before the transaction is 
executed].  For intermediary institutions, identification information in the cover 
payments (e.g. MT202COV) should be screened.  
 
 
 
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
29  
  
7   
Notice Paragraph 7 – Simplified Customer Due Diligence  
  
7-1  
Paragraph 7.1 of the Notice permits a bank to adopt a risk-based approach in 
assessing the necessary measures to be performed, and to perform appropriate 
SCDD measures in cases where the bank is satisfied, upon analysis of risks, that 
the ML/TF risks are low. In relation to banks participating in COSMIC, the bank 
should consider information received through COSMIC in determining such ML/TF 
risks.  
  
7-2 
Where a bank applies SCDD measures, it is still required to perform ongoing 
monitoring of business relations under the Notice.  
  
7-3  
Under SCDD, a bank may adopt a risk-based approach in assessing whether any 
measures should be performed for connected parties of the customers.    
  
7-4  
Where a bank is satisfied that the risks of money laundering and terrorism 
financing are low, a bank may perform SCDD measures. Examples of possible 
SCDD measures include ―  
  
(a) reducing the frequency of updates of customer identification information;  
  
(b) reducing the degree of ongoing monitoring and scrutiny of transactions, based 
on a reasonable monetary threshold; or  
  
(c) choosing another method to understand the purpose and intended nature of 
business relations by inferring this from the type of transactions or business 
relations to be established, instead of collecting information as to the purpose 
and intended nature of business relations.  
  
7-5 
Subject to the requirement that a bank’s assessment of low ML/TF risks is 
supported by an adequate analysis of risks, examples of potentially lower ML/TF 
risk situations include ―  
  
(a) Customer risk  
  
(i) 
a Singapore Government entity;  
  
(ii) 
entities listed on a stock exchange and subject to regulatory disclosure 
requirements relating to adequate transparency in respect of beneficial 
owners (imposed through stock exchange rules, law or other 
enforceable means); and  
  
(iii) 
an FI incorporated or established outside Singapore that is subject to 
and supervised for compliance with AML/CFT requirements consistent 
with standards set by the FATF.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
30  
  
(b) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk  
  
(i) 
a pension, superannuation or similar scheme that provides retirement 
benefits to employees, where contributions are made by way of 
deduction from wages, and the scheme rules do not permit the 
assignment of a member’s interest under the scheme; and  
  
(ii) 
financial products or services that provide appropriately defined and 
limited services to certain types of customers (e.g. to increase customer 
access for financial inclusion purposes).  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
31  
  
 
8  
Notice Paragraph 8 – Enhanced Customer Due Diligence   
  
8-1  
Where the ML/TF risks are identified to be higher, a bank shall take enhanced 
CDD (“ECDD”) measures to mitigate and manage those risks.   
  
8-2  
Examples of potentially higher risk categories under paragraph 8.7 of the Notice 
include ―  
  
(a) Customer risk  
  
(i) 
customers from higher risk businesses / activities / sectors identified in 
Singapore’s NRA, as well as other higher risk businesses / activities / 
sectors identified by the bank;  
  
(ii) 
the ownership structure of the legal person or arrangement appears 
unusual or excessively complex given the nature of the legal person’s or 
legal arrangement’s business;  
  
(iii) 
legal persons or legal arrangements that are personal asset holding 
vehicles;  
  
(iv) the business relations are conducted under unusual circumstances (e.g.  
significant unexplained geographic distance between the bank and the 
customer);  
  
(v) 
companies that have nominee shareholders or shares in bearer form; 
and  
  
(vi) cash-intensive businesses.  
  
(b) Country or geographic risk  
  
(i) 
countries or jurisdictions the bank is exposed to, either through its own 
activities (including where its branches and subsidiaries operate in) or 
the activities of its customers (including the bank’s network of 
correspondent banking relationships) which have relatively higher levels 
of corruption, organised crime or inadequate AML/CFT measures, as 
identified by the FATF; and  
  
(ii) 
countries identified by credible bodies (e.g. reputable international bodies 
such as Transparency International) as having significant levels of 
corruption, terrorism financing or other criminal activity.  
  
(c) Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk  
  
(i) 
anonymous transactions (which may involve cash); and   


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
32  
  
  
(ii) 
frequent payments received from unknown or unassociated third parties.  
 
8-3 
When considering the ML/TF risks presented by a country or jurisdiction, a bank 
should take into account, where appropriate, variations in ML/TF risks across 
different regions or areas within a country.  
  
  
Notice Paragraph 8.1  
 
8-4          Politically Exposed Persons (“PEPs”) Definitions  
   
8-4-1  
The definitions in paragraph 8.1 of the Notice are drawn from the FATF 
Recommendations. The definition of PEPs is not intended to cover middle-ranking 
or more junior individuals in the categories listed.  
  
8-4-2  
In the context of Singapore, domestic PEPs should include at least all Government 
Ministers, Members of Parliament, Nominated Members of Parliament and Non-
Constituency Members of Parliament.   
  
8-4-3  
When determining whether a person is a “close associate” of a PEP, the bank may 
consider factors such as the level of influence the PEP has on such a person or 
the extent of his exposure to the PEP. The bank may rely on information available 
from public sources and information obtained through customer interaction.  
  
8-4-4  
With reference to paragraph 8.1 of the Notice, examples of an “international 
organisation” include the United Nations and affiliated agencies such as the 
International Maritime Organisation and the International Monetary Fund; regional 
international organisations such as the Asian Development Bank, Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations Secretariat, institutions of the European Union, the 
Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; military international 
organisations such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation; and economic 
organisations such as the World Trade Organisation or the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation Secretariat.  
  
8-4-5  
Examples of persons who are or have been entrusted with prominent functions by 
an international organisation are members of senior management such as 
directors, deputy directors and members of the board or equivalent functions.  
Other than relying on information from a customer, the bank may consider 
information from public sources in determining whether a person has been or is 
entrusted with prominent functions by an international organisation.  
  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
33  
  
Notice Paragraphs 8.2 to 8.4  
 
8-5          PEPs  
  
8-5-1  
If a bank determines that any natural person appointed to act on behalf of a 
customer or any connected party of a customer is a PEP, the bank should assess 
the ML/TF risks presented and consider factors such as the level of influence that 
the PEP has on the customer. Banks should consider factors such as whether the 
PEP is able to exercise substantial influence over the customer, to determine the 
overall ML/TF risks presented by the customer. Where the customer presents 
higher ML/TF risks, the bank should apply ECDD measures on the customer 
accordingly.  
 
8-5-2  
It is generally acceptable for a bank to refer to commercially available databases 
to identify PEPs. However, a bank should also obtain from the customer details of 
his occupation and the name of his employer. In addition, a bank should consider 
other non-public information that the bank is aware of. A bank shall exercise sound 
judgment in identifying any PEP, having regard to the risks and the circumstances.   
 
8-5-2A  For the avoidance of doubt, for banks participating in COSMIC:  
 
(a) in relation to paragraph 8.2 of the Notice, the bank should ensure that its 
internal risk management systems, policies, procedures and controls 
mentioned in paragraph 8.2 take into account relevant information received 
through COSMIC, including any risk assessments that it has undertaken under 
paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 or 6.5 of MAS Notice FSM-N02; and 
 
(b) the determination of whether a customer, any natural person appointed to act 
on behalf of the customer, any connected party of the customer or any 
beneficial owner of the customer is a PEP, or a family member or close 
associate of a PEP, may be made by the bank as part of its risk assessment 
undertaken under paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 or 6.5 of MAS Notice FSM-N02. A bank 
that has made such a determination is reminded to perform the enhanced CDD 
measures in paragraph 8.3 of the Notice and should take into consideration 
any relevant information that it has received through COSMIC in performing 
such measures. 
 
8-5-3 
In relation to paragraph 8.3(a) of the Notice, the approval shall be obtained from 
senior management. Inputs should also be obtained from the bank’s AML/CFT 
compliance function.  
  
8-5-4 
In relation to paragraph 8.3(b) of the Notice, a bank may refer to information 
sources such as asset and income declarations, which some jurisdictions expect 
certain senior public officials to file and which often include information about an 
official’s source of wealth and current business interests. A bank should note that 
not all declarations are publicly available. A bank should also be aware that certain 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
34  
  
jurisdictions impose restrictions on their PEPs’ ability to hold foreign bank 
accounts, to hold other office or paid employment.  
 
8-5-5  
Source of wealth generally refers to the origin of the customer’s and beneficial 
owner’s entire body of wealth (i.e. total assets). This relates to how the customer 
and beneficial owner have acquired the wealth which is distinct from identifying the 
assets that they own. Source of wealth information should give an indication about 
the size of wealth the customer and beneficial owner would be expected to have, 
and how the customer and beneficial owner acquired the wealth. Although the 
bank may not have specific information about assets that are not deposited with 
or processed by the bank, it may be possible to obtain general information from 
the customer, commercial databases or other open sources. Examples of 
appropriate and reasonable means of establishing source of wealth are 
information and documents such as evidence of title, copies of trust deeds, audited 
accounts, salary details, tax returns and bank statements.  
  
8-5-6  
Source of funds refers to the origin of the particular funds or other assets which 
are the subject of the establishment of business relations (e.g. the amounts being 
invested, deposited, or wired as part of the business relations). In order to ensure 
that the funds are not proceeds of crime, the bank should not limit its source of 
funds inquiry to identifying the other FI from which the funds have been transferred, 
but more importantly, the activity that generated the funds. The information 
obtained should be substantive and facilitate the establishment of the provenance 
of the funds or reason for the funds having been acquired.  Examples of 
appropriate and reasonable means of establishing source of funds are information 
such as salary payments or sale proceeds.  
  
8-5-7  
Based on its risk assessment of the PEP, a bank should consider whether the 
information, regarding source of wealth and source of funds, whether received 
through COSMIC or otherwise, should be corroborated. In relation to paragraph 
8.3(b) of the Notice, examples of “appropriate and reasonable means” for 
establishing source of wealth or source of funds are financial statements of the 
legal person or legal arrangement owned or controlled by the PEP, site visits, a 
copy of the will (in cases where the source of wealth or funds is an inheritance), 
and conveyancing documents (in cases where the source of wealth or funds is a 
sale of property).  
  
8-5-8  
In relation to paragraph 8.3 of the Notice, other ECDD measures that may be 
performed include ―   
  
(a) requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the 
customer’s name with another FI subject to similar or equivalent CDD 
standards;  
  
(b) using public sources of information (e.g. websites) to gain a better 
understanding of the reputation of the customer or any beneficial owner of a 
customer. Where the bank finds information containing allegations of 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
35  
  
wrongdoing by a customer or a beneficial owner of a customer, the bank 
should assess how this affects the level of risk associated with the business 
relations;  
  
(c) commissioning external intelligence reports where it is not possible for a bank 
to easily obtain information through public sources or where there are doubts 
about the reliability of public information.  
  
8-5-9  
In relation to paragraphs 8.4(a) and (b) of the Notice, where the bank assesses 
that the business relations or transactions with a domestic PEP or an international 
organisation PEP do not present higher ML/TF risks and that therefore ECDD 
measures need not be applied, the bank shall nevertheless apply measures under 
paragraph 6 of the Notice on the customer. However, where changes in events, 
circumstances or other factors lead to the bank’s assessment that the business 
relations or transactions with the customer present higher ML/TF risks, the bank 
should review its risk assessment and apply ECDD measures.  
  
8-5-10  While domestic PEPs and international organisation PEPs may be subject to a 
risk-based approach, it does not preclude such persons from presenting the same 
ML/TF risks as a foreign PEP.   
 
8-5-11  With reference to paragraph 8.4(c) of the Notice, while the time elapsed since 
stepping down from a prominent public function is a relevant factor to consider 
when determining the level of influence a PEP continues to exercise, it should not 
be the sole determining factor. Other risk factors that the bank should consider are 
―  
  
(a) the seniority of the position that the individual previously held when he was a 
PEP; and  
 
(b) whether the individual’s previous PEP position and current function are linked 
in any way (e.g. whether the ex-PEP was appointed to his current position or 
function by his successor, or whether the ex-PEP continues to substantively 
exercise the same powers in his current position or function).  
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 8.5 to 8.8  
 
8-6          Other Higher Risk Categories  
  
8-6-A 
For the avoidance of doubt, for banks participating in COSMIC:  
 
(a) in relation to paragraph 8.5 of the Notice, the bank should ensure that its 
internal risk management systems, policies, procedures and controls 
mentioned in paragraph 8.5 take into account relevant information received 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
36  
  
through COSMIC, including any risk assessments that it has undertaken under 
paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 or 6.5 of MAS Notice FSM-N02; and  
 
(b) the determination of whether business relations with or transactions for any 
customer present a higher risk for ML/TF may be made by the bank as part of 
its risk assessment undertaken under paragraphs 4.1, 5.1 or 6.5 of MAS Notice 
FSM-N02. A bank that has made such a determination is reminded to perform 
the appropriate enhanced CDD measures in paragraph 8.3 of the Notice and 
should take into consideration any relevant information that it has received 
through COSMIC in performing such measures. 
 
8-6-1  
In relation to paragraph 8.7 of the Notice, a bank may refer to the preceding 
paragraph 8-5-8 of these Guidelines for further guidance on the ECDD measures 
to be performed.  
  
8-6-2 
For customers highlighted in paragraph 8.6(a) of the Notice, a bank shall assess 
them as presenting higher ML/TF risks. For such customers, the bank shall ensure 
that the ECDD measures performed are commensurate with the risks. For 
customers highlighted in paragraph 8.6(b) of the Notice, a bank shall assess 
whether any such customer presents a higher risk for ML/TF and ensure that the 
measures under paragraph 6 of the Notice, or ECDD measures where the bank 
assesses the customer to present a higher risk for ML/TF, performed are 
commensurate with the risk.       
  
8-6-3  
With reference to paragraph 8.6(a) of the Notice, a bank should refer to the FATF 
Public Statement on High Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action3. FATF 
updates this Public Statement on a periodic basis and banks should regularly refer 
to the FATF website for the latest updates4.   
  
8-6-4  
For private banking business which inherently presents higher ML/TF risks, a bank 
should, regardless of the bank’s internal risk classification of the customer, refer to 
the sound practices highlighted in the MAS Information Paper, “Guidance on 
Private Banking Controls”5. Such practices include ensuring that ―   
  
(a) information obtained on the source of wealth of the customers and beneficial 
owners should be independently corroborated against documentary evidence 
or public information sources;   
  
 
3 Please refer to the high-risk jurisdictions subject to a FATF call on its members and other jurisdictions to apply 
countermeasures (i.e. “black list” jurisdictions) in the FATF webpage - https://www.fatf-gafi.org/en/publications/High-risk-
and-other-monitored-jurisdictions.html   
  
4 The link to the FATF website is as follows: http://www.fatf-gafi.org/  
  
5 https://www.mas.gov.sg/publications/monographs-or-information-paper/2014/guidance-on-private-banking-controls 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
37  
  
(b) parties screened should include operating companies and individual 
benefactors contributing to the customer’s and beneficial owner’s wealth or  
funds;   
  
(c) the bank conducts periodic reviews of such customers; and  
  
(d) where the bank is aware of customers having a common beneficial owner or a 
customer having multiple accounts with the bank, the bank should scrutinise 
transactions of these customer accounts holistically to better identify 
suspicious, complex, unusually large or unusual patterns of transactions, and 
perform periodic reviews on a consolidated basis.    
  
8-6-5  
For the purposes of paragraph 8.8 of the Notice, regulations issued by the 
Authority include the Regulations relating to the freezing of assets of persons and 
sanctioning of persons.  
  
8-6-6   
With regard to tax and other serious crimes, as a preventive measure, banks are 
expected to reject a prospective customer where there are reasonable grounds to 
suspect that the customer’s assets are the proceeds of serious crimes, including 
wilful and fraudulent tax evasion. Where there are grounds for suspicion in an 
existing customer relationship, banks should conduct enhanced monitoring and 
where appropriate, discontinue the relationship. If the bank is inclined to retain the 
customer, approval shall be obtained from senior management with the 
substantiating reasons properly documented, and the account subjected to close 
monitoring and commensurate risk mitigation measures. This requirement applies 
to serious foreign tax offences, even if the foreign offence is in relation to the type 
of tax for which an equivalent obligation does not exist in Singapore. Examples of 
tax crime related suspicious transactions are set out in Appendix B of these 
Guidelines.  
  
  
 
 
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
38  
  
9   
Notice Paragraph 9 – Reliance on Third Parties  
  
9-1  
Paragraph 9 does not apply to outsourcing. Third party reliance under paragraph 
9 of the Notice is different from an outsourcing arrangement or agreement.  
  
9-2  
In a third party reliance scenario, the third party will typically have an existing 
relationship with the customer that is independent of the relationship to be formed 
by the customer with the relying bank. The third party will therefore perform the 
CDD measures on the customer according to its own AML/CFT policies, 
procedures and controls.    
  
9-3  
In contrast to a third party reliance scenario, the outsourced service provider 
performs the CDD measures (e.g. performs centralised transaction monitoring 
functions) on behalf of the bank, in accordance with the bank’s AML/CFT policies, 
procedures and standards, and is subject to the bank’s control measures to 
effectively implement the bank’s AML/CFT procedures.  
  
9-4  
The bank may take a variety of measures, where applicable, to satisfy the 
requirements in paragraphs 9.2(a) and 9.2(b) of the Notice, including ―  
  
(a) referring to any independent and public assessment of the overall AML/CFT 
regime to which the third party is subject, such as the FATF’s or FSRB’s Mutual 
Evaluation reports and the IMF/World Bank Financial Sector Assessment 
Programme Reports / Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes;   
  
(b) referring to any publicly available reports or material on the quality of that third 
party’s compliance with applicable AML/CFT rules;  
  
(c) obtaining professional advice as to the extent of AML/CFT obligations to which 
the third party is subject to with respect to the laws of the jurisdiction in which 
the third party operates;  
  
(d) examining the AML/CFT laws in the jurisdiction where the third party operates 
and determining its comparability with the AML/CFT laws of Singapore; and  
  
(e) reviewing the policies and procedures of the third party.  
  
9-5 
The reference to “documents” in paragraph 9.2(d) of the Notice includes a 
reference to the underlying CDD-related documents and records obtained by the 
third party to support the CDD measures performed (e.g. copies of identification 
information, CDD/Know Your Customer forms). Where these documents and 
records are kept by the third party, the bank should obtain an undertaking from the 
third party to keep all underlying CDD-related documents and records for at least 
five years following the termination of the bank’s business relations with the 
customer or the completion of transactions undertaken.   
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
39  
  
9-6 
In a syndicated facility transaction, a participating bank may rely on the lead 
arranger’s confirmation that the necessary CDD measures have been performed 
on the customer (i.e. borrower of the syndicated facility) to meet the Notice 
requirements, provided that the participating bank is satisfied that the requirements 
in paragraph 9.2 of the Notice are met. However, a participating bank should 
perform its own CDD measures on the customer in situations where its 
assessment of the customer’s ML/TF risk leads to a higher risk classification than 
the lead arranger’s assessment of the customer’s ML/TF risks.  Notwithstanding 
the reliance on CDD measures performed by the lead arranger, the participating 
bank remains responsible for its obligations under the Notice.  
  
9-7 
Paragraph 9.3 of the Notice prohibits the bank from relying on the third party to 
carry out ongoing monitoring. Paragraph 9.3 of the Notice should be read with the 
ongoing monitoring requirements in Part (VI) of paragraph 6 of the Notice.  
  
9-8 
For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph 9 of the Notice does not apply to the 
outsourcing of the ongoing monitoring process by a bank, including to its parent 
entity, branches and subsidiaries. A bank may outsource the first-level review of 
alerts from the transaction monitoring systems, or sanctions reviews, to another 
party. However, the bank remains responsible for complying with ongoing 
monitoring requirements under the Notice.   
  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
40  
  
 
10   
Notice Paragraph 10 – Correspondent Banking and Similar Services   
  
10-1  
Correspondent banks should note that the requirements under paragraph 10 of 
the Notice are in addition to performing measures set out under paragraphs 6, 7 
and 8 of the Notice, as applicable.  
  
10-2  
A correspondent bank typically acts as a correspondent for many banks or FIs 
around the world. Respondent FIs may be provided with a wide range of services, 
including cash management (e.g. interest-bearing accounts in a variety of 
currencies), international wire transfers, cheque clearing, payable-through 
accounts and foreign exchange services.  
  
10-3  
Correspondent banks should note that foreign exchange and money market 
transactions do not fall within the scope of “similar services” as referred to in 
paragraph 10.2 of the Notice.  
  
10-4  
After a correspondent bank obtains adequate information as required by 
paragraph 10.3(a) of the Notice to establish a correspondent banking relationship 
or the provision of similar services, such information should continue to be updated 
on a periodic basis thereafter.  
  
10-5  
Other factors that a correspondent bank should consider in complying with 
paragraph 10.3(a) of the Notice include ―  
  
(a) the business group to which the respondent FI belongs, country of 
incorporation, and the countries or jurisdictions in which subsidiaries and 
branches of the group are located;  
  
(b) information about the respondent FI’s management and ownership,  
reputation, major business activities, target markets, customer base and their 
locations;  
  
(c) the purpose of the services provided to the respondent FI and expected 
business volume; and  
  
(d) the potential use of the account by other respondent FIs in a “nested” 
correspondent banking relationship6; the bank should review the risks posed 
by such “nested” relationships.  
  
10-6 
To assess the ML/TF risk associated with a particular country or jurisdiction as 
required by paragraph 10.3(a)(iii) of the Notice, a correspondent bank may rely on 
information from the FATF mutual evaluation reports and statements on countries 
or jurisdictions identified as either being subject to countermeasures or having 
 
6 Nested correspondent banking refers to the use of a correspondent bank’s correspondent relationship by a number of 
respondent FIs, through their relationships with the bank’s direct respondent FI, to conduct transactions and obtain access 
to other financial services.   


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
41  
  
strategic AML/CFT deficiencies, mutual evaluation reports by FSRBs, publicly 
available information from national authorities and any restrictive measures 
imposed on a country, particularly prohibitions on providing correspondent banking 
or other similar services.  
  
10-7 
For correspondent banking relationships established with a bank’s related entities, 
the appropriate level of measures as required under paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the 
Notice (as applicable), and paragraph 10 of the Notice should be applied, bearing 
in mind that the risk profiles of individual entities within the same financial group 
could differ significantly. The bank should take into consideration the parent bank’s 
level of oversight and control over these related entities, and other risk factors 
unique to the entities such as their customers and products, the legal and 
regulatory environment they operate in, and sanctions by authorities for AML/CFT 
lapses.  
  
10-8 
The CDD process should result in a thorough understanding of the ML/TF risks 
arising from a relationship with the respondent FI. It should not be treated as a 
“form-filling” exercise. A correspondent bank’s assessment of the respondent FI 
may be enhanced through meetings with the respondent FI’s management and 
compliance head, banking and AML/CFT regulators.  
  
10-9 
A correspondent bank may apply a risk-based approach in complying with the 
requirements set out in paragraph 10 of the Notice, but should be mindful that 
correspondent banking relationships generally present higher ML/TF risks.  
  
10-10 
If a correspondent bank provides correspondent banking or other similar services 
to its related respondent FIs within the same financial group, the correspondent 
bank should ensure that it still assesses the ML/TF risks presented by its related 
respondent FI.  
  
10-11 
Where the head office of the financial group is incorporated in Singapore, it should 
monitor the correspondent banking relationships between banks in its financial 
group, and ensure that adequate information sharing mechanisms within the 
financial group are in place.  
  
10-12 
For the purposes of paragraph 10 of the Notice, a correspondent bank should take 
into account, for example, any sanctions imposed by relevant authorities on a 
respondent FI for failing to have adequate controls against ML/TF activities.  
  
10-13 
In assessing whether a bank or FI falls within the meaning of “shell FI” for the 
purposes of paragraph 10 of the Notice, a correspondent bank should note that 
physical presence means meaningful mind and management located within a 
country. The existence simply of a local agent or low-level employees does not 
constitute physical presence.  
  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
42  
  
 
11   
Notice Paragraph 11 – Wire Transfers  
  
11-1    
Paragraph 11 of the Notice is not intended to cover any transfer that flows from a 
transaction carried out using a credit, charge, debit or prepaid card for the 
purchase of goods or services, so long as the credit, charge, debit or prepaid card 
number accompanies all transfers flowing from the transaction. However, 
paragraph 11 of the Notice applies when a credit, charge, debit or prepaid card is 
used as a payment system to effect a person-to-person wire transfer, hence the 
necessary information should be included in the message for such transactions.  
  
11-2  
In relation to paragraph 11.7 of the Notice, examples of domestic wire transfers in 
Singapore include inter-bank transfers via the local MAS Electronic Payment 
System (“MEPS+”) system.  
  
11-3  
A bank should not omit, delete or alter information in payment messages, for the 
purpose of avoiding detection of that information by another FI in the payment 
process.  
  
11-4  
A bank should monitor payment messages to and from higher risk countries or 
jurisdictions, as well as transactions with higher risk countries or jurisdictions and 
suspend or reject payment messages or transactions with sanctioned parties or 
countries or jurisdictions.   
  
 11-5  
Where name screening checks confirm that the wire transfer originator or wire 
transfer beneficiary is a terrorist or terrorist entity, the requirement for the bank to 
block, reject or freeze assets of these terrorists or terrorist entities cannot be risk-
based.   
  
11-6  
Where there are positive hits arising from name screening checks, they should be 
escalated to the AML/CFT compliance function. The decision to approve or reject 
the receipt or release of the wire transfer should be made at an appropriate level 
and documented.   
  
11-7  
Where a cross-border wire transfer, regardless of amount, is a cover payment (e.g. 
MT202COV payments), ordering institutions shall in accordance with the 
requirements of paragraph 11 of the Notice, ensure that the payment message of 
the cover payment sent to the intermediary institution contain information of the 
wire transfer originator and wire transfer beneficiary. The information included in 
the payment message of the cover payment shall be identical to that contained in 
the cross-border wire transfer message sent directly to the beneficiary institution.  
  
11-8  
An intermediary institution that receives and transmits a cover payment should 
ensure that the relevant fields for storing originator and beneficiary information in 
the payment message of the cover payment are duly completed. In addition, such 
intermediary institutions shall ensure that the wire transfer originator and wire 
transfer beneficiary information in the payment message of the cover payment is 
complete, in accordance with paragraph 11.15 of the Notice. The intermediary 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
43  
  
institution shall also screen the names of the wire transfer originator and wire 
transfer beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 6.41 of the Notice.  
 
Notice Paragraphs 11.3 to 11.9  
 
11-9        Responsibility of the Ordering Institution  
  
11-9-1  For joint accounts, the ordering institution shall provide all of the joint account 
holders’ information to the beneficiary institution in accordance with paragraph 
6.37 of the Notice. If there are space constraints in the SWIFT message, the 
ordering institution may indicate in the wire transfer message that the originator 
information provided pertains to a joint account holder.  
  
11-9-2  The ordering institution shall include wire transfers in its ongoing monitoring of the 
business relations with the customer, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the 
Notice.   
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 11.10 to 11.12  
 
11-10     Responsibility of the Beneficiary Institution  
  
11-10-1  Where an incoming wire transfer is not accompanied by complete wire transfer 
originator information and wire transfer beneficiary, a beneficiary institution shall 
request the information from the ordering institution. A bank should consider 
rejecting incoming wire transfers or terminating business relations with overseas 
ordering institutions that fail to provide originator information. An STR should be 
filed if appropriate. In this regard, a bank should be mindful of any requirements 
that may be imposed on the overseas ordering institution, either by law or as a 
regulatory measure, in relation to cross-border wire transfers. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
44  
  
12   
Notice Paragraph 12 – Record Keeping 
  
12-1  
Banks participating in COSMIC are reminded that the record keeping requirements 
set out in paragraph 12 of the Notice are applicable in tandem with any relevant 
record keeping obligations under MAS Notice FSM-N02. Where information 
received through COSMIC is relevant to and has been used by the bank to fulfill 
its obligations under the Notice, the record retention policies under both the Notice 
and MAS Notice FSM-N02 apply and the bank should be able to produce records 
as required under both notices. 
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
45  
  
14   
Notice Paragraph 14 – Suspicious Transactions Reporting  
  
14-1  
A bank should ensure that the internal process for evaluating whether a matter 
should be referred to the Suspicious Transaction Reporting Office (“STRO”) via an 
STR is completed without delay and should not exceed 15 business days of the 
case being referred by the relevant bank employee or officer, unless the 
circumstances are exceptional or extraordinary.  
  
14-2  
A bank should note that an STR filed with STRO would also meet the reporting 
obligations under the TSOFA.  
  
14-3  
Examples of suspicious transactions are set out in Appendix B of these Guidelines. 
These examples are not intended to be exhaustive and are only examples of the 
most basic ways in which money may be laundered or used for TF purposes. 
Identification of suspicious transactions, whether arising from information received 
through COSMIC or otherwise, should prompt further enquiries and where 
necessary, investigations into the source of funds. A bank should also consider 
filing an STR if there is suspicion of ML/TF arising from any adverse news in 
relation to financial crime, whether arising from information received through 
COSMIC on its customers or otherwise. A transaction or activity may not be 
suspicious at the time, but if suspicions are raised later, an obligation to report then 
arises.  
  
14-4  
Once suspicion has been raised in relation to a customer or any transaction for 
that customer, in addition to reporting the suspicious activity, a bank should ensure 
that appropriate action is taken to adequately mitigate the risk of the bank being 
used for ML/TF activities. This may include strengthening its AML/CFT processes. 
This may also include a review of either the risk classification of the customer, or 
the business relations with the customer. Appropriate action should be taken, 
including escalating the issue to the appropriate decision making level, taking into 
account any other relevant factors, such as cooperation with law enforcement 
agencies.  
  
14-5 
STR reporting templates are available on CAD’s website7. However, banks are 
strongly encouraged to use the online system provided by STRO to lodge STRs.  
In the event that the bank is of the view that STRO should be informed on an urgent 
basis, particularly where a transaction is known to be part of an ongoing 
investigation by the relevant authorities, the bank should give initial notification to 
STRO by telephone or email and follow up with such other means of reporting as 
STRO may direct.  
  
14-6  
A bank should document all transactions that have been brought to the attention 
of its AML/CFT compliance function, including transactions that are not reported 
to STRO. To ensure that there is proper accountability for decisions made, the 
 
7 The website address as at 28 March 2024: https://www.police.gov.sg/Advisories/Crime/Commercial-Crimes/Suspicious-
Transaction-Reporting-Office 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
46  
  
basis for not submitting STRs for any suspicious transactions escalated by its 
employees and officers should be properly substantiated and documented.  
  
14-7  
Banks are reminded to read paragraph 14.4 of the Notice together with paragraphs 
6.35 and 6.36 of the Notice. Where a bank stops performing CDD measures as 
permitted under paragraph 14.4 and is, as a result, unable to complete CDD 
measures (as specified under paragraph 6.36), the bank is reminded that it shall 
not commence or continue business relations with that customer or undertake any 
transaction for that customer.  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
47  
  
 
15   
Notice Paragraph 15 – Internal Policies, Compliance, Audit and Training  
  
15-1  
As internal policies and procedures serve to guide employees and officers in 
ensuring compliance with AML/CFT laws and regulations, it is important that a 
bank updates its policies and procedures in a timely manner, to take into account 
new operational, legal and regulatory developments and emerging or new ML/TF 
risks.  
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 15.3 to 15.9  
 
15-2       Group Policy   
  
15-2-1  For the avoidance of doubt, Singapore branches of banks incorporated outside 
Singapore need not comply with paragraphs 15.3 to 15.9 of the Notice.  
Paragraphs 15.3 to 15.9 of the Notice are intended to be applied by a bank 
incorporated in Singapore to its branches and subsidiaries, but not to its parent 
entity and the bank’s other related corporations.  
 
15-2-1A  Banks participating in COSMIC are reminded to ensure compliance with the 
conditions set out in the Third Schedule of the FSM Act before onward sharing any 
information received through COSMIC. 
  
15-2-2  In relation to paragraph 15.6 of the Notice, examples of the types of information 
that should be shared within the financial group for risk management purposes are 
positive name matches arising from screening performed against ML/TF 
information sources (including the platform screening list as defined in MAS Notice 
FSM-N02, where a bank is participating in COSMIC), a list of customers who have 
been exited by the bank, its branches and subsidiaries based on suspicion of 
ML/TF and names of parties on whom STRs have been filed. Such information 
should be shared by a branch or subsidiary of a bank incorporated in Singapore 
with the bank’s group level compliance, audit, and AML/CFT functions (whether in 
or outside Singapore), for risk management purposes.  
  
  
Notice Paragraphs 15.10 to 15.11  
 
15-3  
Compliance  
  
15-3-1  A bank should ensure that the AML/CFT compliance officer has the necessary 
seniority and authority within the bank to effectively perform his responsibilities.  
  
 
15-3-2  The responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance officer should include ―  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
48  
  
(a) carrying out, or overseeing the carrying out of, ongoing monitoring of business 
relations and sample review of accounts for compliance with the Notice and 
these Guidelines;  
  
(b) promoting compliance with the Notice and these Guidelines, as well as the 
FSM Sanctions Regulations, and taking overall charge of all AML/CFT matters 
within the organisation;  
  
(c) informing employees and officers promptly of regulatory changes;  
  
(d) ensuring a speedy and appropriate reaction to any matter in which ML/TF is 
suspected;  
  
(e) reporting, or overseeing the reporting of, suspicious transactions;   
  
(f) advising and training employees and officers on developing and implementing 
internal policies, procedures and controls on AML/CFT;  
  
(g) reporting to senior management on the outcome of reviews of the bank’s 
compliance with the Notice and these Guidelines, as well as the FSM 
Sanctions Regulations and risk assessment procedures; and  
  
(h) reporting regularly on key AML/CFT risk management and control issues 
(including information outlined in paragraph 1-4-14 of the Guidelines), and any 
necessary remedial actions, arising from audit, inspection and compliance 
reviews, to the bank’s senior management, and in the case of locally 
incorporated banks, to the board of directors, at least annually and as and 
when needed.  
  
15-3-3  The business interests of a bank should not interfere with the effective discharge 
of the above-mentioned responsibilities of the AML/CFT compliance officer, and 
potential conflicts of interest should be avoided. To enable unbiased judgments 
and facilitate impartial advice to management, the AML/CFT compliance officer 
should, for example, be distinct from the internal audit and business line functions. 
Where any conflicts between business lines and the responsibilities of the 
AML/CFT compliance officer arise, procedures should be in place to ensure that 
AML/CFT concerns are objectively considered and addressed at the appropriate 
level of the bank’s management.   
  
  
Notice Paragraph 15.12  
 
15-4        Audit  
  
15-4-1  A bank’s AML/CFT framework should be subject to periodic audits (including 
sample testing). Such audits should be performed not just on individual business 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
49  
  
functions but also on a bank-wide basis. Auditors should assess the effectiveness 
of measures taken to prevent ML/TF. This would include, among others ―   
  
(a) determining the adequacy of the bank’s AML/CFT policies, procedures and 
controls, ML/TF risk assessment framework and application of risk-based 
approach;   
  
(b) reviewing the content and frequency of AML/CFT training programmes, and 
the extent of employees’ and officers’ compliance with established AML/CFT 
policies and procedures; and   
  
(c) assessing whether instances of non-compliance are reported to senior 
management on a timely basis.  
  
15-4-2  The frequency and extent of the audit should be commensurate with the ML/TF 
risks presented and the size and complexity of the bank’s business.  
  
  
Notice Paragraph 15.13  
 
15-5        Employee Hiring  
   
15-5-1  The screening procedures applied when a bank in Singapore hires employees and 
appoints officers should include ―  
  
(a) background checks with past employers;  
  
(b) screening against ML/TF information sources; and  
  
(c) bankruptcy searches.  
  
15-5-2     In addition, a bank should conduct credit history checks, on a risk-based approach, 
when hiring employees and appointing officers.  
   
 
Notice Paragraph 15.14  
 
15-6       Training  
  
15-6-1  As stated in paragraph 15.14 of the Notice, it is a bank’s responsibility to provide 
adequate training for its employees and officers so that they are adequately trained 
to implement its AML/CFT policies and procedures. The scope and frequency of 
training should be tailored to the specific risks faced by the bank and pitched 
according to the job functions, responsibilities and experience of the employees 
and officers. New employees and officers should be required to attend training as 
soon as possible after being hired or appointed.  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
50  
  
  
15-6-2  Apart from the initial training, a bank should also provide refresher training at least 
once every two years, or more regularly as appropriate, to ensure that employees 
and officers are reminded of their responsibilities and are kept informed of new 
developments related to ML/TF. A bank should maintain the training records for 
audit purposes.  
  
15-6-3  A bank should monitor the effectiveness of the training provided to its employees. 
This may be achieved by ―   
  
(a) testing employees’ understanding of the bank’s policies and procedures to 
combat ML/TF, their obligations under relevant laws and regulations, and their 
ability to recognise suspicious transactions;   
 
(b) monitoring employees’ compliance with the bank’s AML/CFT policies, 
procedures and controls as well as the quality and quantity of internal reports 
so that further training needs may be identified and appropriate action taken; 
and  
  
(c) monitoring attendance and following up with employees who miss such training 
without reasonable cause.   
  
Endnotes on History of Amendments  
 
1. Guidelines to MAS Notice 626 dated 28 March 2024 with effect from 1 April 2024.  
(a) Amended on 18 October 2024. 
 
 
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
51  
  
 
I  
       Other Key Topics - Guidance to Banks on Proliferation Financing  
 
 
 
I-1  
Overview  
  
 
I-1-1   
MAS issues the FSM Sanctions Regulations in order to discharge or facilitate the 
discharge of any obligation binding on Singapore by virtue of a United Nations 
Security Council Resolution (“UNSCR”) 8. These Regulations apply to all FIs 
(including banks) regulated by MAS and generally impose financial sanctions on 
designated persons.  
  
I-1-2  
Specifically, a UNSCR may designate certain individuals and entities involved in 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and its financing. The relevant 
information and full listings of persons designated by UNSCRs can be found on 
the UN website9.   
  
                   I-1-3        MAS has given effect to UNSCRs as listed by the FATF Recommendations  
(2012) to be relevant to combating proliferation financing, by issuing the FSM 
Sanctions Regulations. Examples of such Regulations are the Financial Services 
and Markets (Sanctions and Freezing of Assets of Persons – Iran) Regulations 
2023 and the Financial Services and Markets (Sanctions and Freezing of Assets 
of Persons – Democratic People’s Republic of Korea) Regulations 2023.  
  
I-1-4  
A bank should rely on its CDD measures (including screening measures) under 
the Notice to detect and prevent proliferation financing activities and transactions.  
  
I-1-5  
A bank should also ensure compliance with legal instruments issued by MAS 
relating to proliferation financing risks.  
  
  
 
I-2  
CDD and Internal Controls  
  
I-2-1  
It is important to ensure that name screening by a bank, as required under the 
Notice, is performed against the latest UN listings as they are updated from time 
to time. A bank should have in place policies, procedures and controls to 
continuously monitor the listings and take necessary follow-up action within a 
reasonable period of time, as required under the applicable laws and regulations.  
  
I-2-2  
A bank should also have policies and procedures to detect attempts by its 
employees or officers to circumvent the applicable laws and regulations (including 
the FSM Sanctions Regulations) such as ―   
  
 
8 Please refer to the MAS website for a full listing of Regulations issued by MAS pursuant to the United Nations Security 
Council Resolutions.   
  
9 Please see: https://www.un.org/securitycouncil/content/un-sc-consolidated-list 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
52  
  
(a) omitting, deleting or altering information in payment messages for the purpose 
of avoiding detection of that information by the bank itself or other banks 
involved in the payment process; and   
  
(b) structuring transactions with the purpose of concealing the involvement of 
designated persons.   
  
I-2-3  
A bank should have policies and procedures to prevent such attempts, and take 
appropriate measures against such employees and officers.  
  
  
 
I-3  
  Obligation of Bank to Freeze without Delay  
    
I-3-1  
A bank is reminded of its obligations under the FSM Sanctions Regulations to 
immediately freeze any funds, financial assets or economic resources owned or 
controlled, directly or indirectly, by designated persons that the bank has in its 
possession, custody or control. The bank should also file an STR in such cases.    
  
  
 
I-4  
  Potential Indicators of Proliferation Financing  
  
                   I-4-1        A bank should develop indicators that would alert it to customers and transactions 
(actual or proposed) that are possibly associated with proliferation financing-
related activities, including indicators such as whether ―   
  
(a) the customer is vague and resistant to providing additional information when 
asked;  
  
(b) the customer’s activity does not match its business profile or the end-user 
information does not match the end-user’s business profile;   
  
(c) the transaction involves designated persons;  
  
(d) the transaction involves higher risk countries or jurisdictions which are known 
to be involved in proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or proliferation 
financing activities;  
  
(e) the transaction involves other FIs with known deficiencies in AML/CFT controls 
or controls for combating proliferation financing;  
  
(f) the transaction involves possible shell companies (e.g. companies that do not 
have a high level of capitalisation or display other shell company indicators);  
  
(g) the transaction involves containers whose numbers have been changed or 
ships that have been renamed;  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
53  
  
(h) the shipment of goods takes a circuitous route or the financial transaction is 
structured in a circuitous manner;  
  
(i) the transaction involves the shipment of goods inconsistent with normal 
geographic trade patterns (e.g. the country involved would not normally export 
or import such goods);  
  
(j) the transaction involves the shipment of goods incompatible with the technical 
level of the country to which goods are being shipped (e.g. semiconductor 
manufacturing equipment shipped to a country with no electronics industry); or  
  
(k) there are inconsistencies in the information provided in trade documents and 
financial flows (e.g. in the names, companies, addresses, ports of call and final 
destination).  
  
  
 
I-5  
  Other Sources of Guidance on Proliferation Financing  
  
I-5-1  
The FATF has also provided guidance on measures to combat proliferation 
financing and a bank may wish to refer to the FATF website for additional 
information.   
  
  
  
  
 
II  
Useful Links  
  
 
  
Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”): http://www.fatf-gafi.org/  
 
  
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision - BIS: http://www.bis.org/bcbs/  
  
  
  
  
………………………….  
  
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
54  
  
APPENDIX A – Examples of CDD Information for Customers (Including Legal  
Persons/Arrangements)  
  
Customer Type  
Examples of CDD Information  
Sole proprietorships  
  
• Full registered business name  
• Business address or principal place of business  
• Information about the purpose and intended nature of 
the business relations with the bank  
• Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the 
sole proprietor (where applicable)  
• Name of the sole proprietor  
• Information about the source of funds  
• A report of the bank’s visit to the customer’s place of 
business, where the bank assesses it as necessary  
• Structure of the sole proprietor’s business (where 
applicable)  
• Records in an independent company registry or 
evidence of business registration  
  
Partnerships  
and 
unincorporated bodies  
• Full name of entity  
• Business address or principal place of business  
• Information about the purpose and intended nature of 
the business relations with the bank  
• Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the 
entity  
• Names of all connected parties  
• Names of all beneficial owners  
• Information about the source of funds  
• A report of the bank’s visit to the customer’s place of 
business, where the bank assesses it as necessary  
• Ownership and control structure  
• Records in an independent company registry   
• Partnership deed  
• The customer’s membership with a relevant 
professional body  
• Any association the entity may have with other 
countries or jurisdictions (e.g. the location of the 
entity’s headquarters, operating facilities, branches, 
subsidiaries)  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
55  
  
Companies  
  
• Full name of entity  
• Business address or principal place of business  
• Information about the purpose and intended nature of 
the business relations with the bank  
• Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the 
entity  
• Names of all connected parties  
Customer Type  
Examples of CDD Information  
 
• Names of all beneficial owners  
• Information about the source of funds  
• A report of the bank’s visit to the customer’s place of 
business, where the bank assesses it as necessary  
• Ownership and control structure  
• Records in an independent company registry  
• Certificate of incumbency, certificate of good standing, 
share register, as appropriate  
• Memorandum and Articles of Association  
• Certificate of Incorporation  
• Board resolution authorising the opening of the 
customer’s account with the bank  
• Any association the entity may have with other 
countries or jurisdictions (e.g. the location of the 
entity’s headquarters, operating facilities, branches, 
subsidiaries)  
  
Public sector bodies, 
government, 
state-
owned companies and 
supranationals (other 
than sovereign wealth 
funds)  
• Full name of entity  
• Nature of entity (e.g. overseas government, treaty 
organisation)  
• Business address or principal place of business  
• Information about the purpose and intended nature of 
the business relations with the bank  
• Name of the home state authority and nature of its 
relationship with its home state authority  
• Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the 
entity  
• Names of all connected parties  
• Information about the source of funds  
• Ownership and control structure  
• A report of the bank’s visit to the customer’s place of 
business, where the bank assesses it as necessary  
• Board resolution authorising the opening of the 
customer’s account with the bank  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
56  
  
Clubs, Societies and  
Charities  
  
• Full name of entity  
• Business address or principal place of business  
• Information about the purpose and intended nature of 
business relations with the bank  
• Information about the nature of the entity’s activities 
and objectives  
• Names of all trustees (or equivalent)  
• Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the 
entity  
• Names of all connected parties  
• Names of all beneficial owners  
Customer Type  
Examples of CDD Information  
 
• Information about the source of funds  
• A report of the bank’s visit to the customer’s place of 
business, where the bank assesses it as necessary  
• Ownership and control structure  
• Constitutional document  
• Certificate of registration  
• Committee/Board resolution authorising the opening 
of the customer’s account with the bank  
• Records in a relevant and independent registry in the 
country of establishment  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
57  
  
Trust  
and  
Other 
Similar Arrangements 
(e.g. 
Foundations, 
Fiducie, Treuhand and 
Fideicomiso)   
• Full name of entity  
• Business address or principal place of business  
• Information about the nature, purpose and objectives 
of the entity (e.g. discretionary, testamentary)  
• Names of all natural persons who act on behalf of the 
entity  
• Names of all connected parties  
• Names of all beneficial owners  
• Information about the source of funds  
• A report of the bank’s visit to the customer’s place of 
business, where the bank assesses it as necessary  
• Information about the purpose and intended nature of 
business relations with the bank  
• Records in a relevant and independent registry in the 
country or jurisdiction of constitution  
• Country or jurisdiction of constitution  
• Trust deed  
• Names of the settlors/trustees/beneficiaries or any 
person who has power over the disposition of any 
property that is subject to the trust  
• Declaration of trusts  
• Deed of retirement and appointment of trustees 
(where applicable)  
  
  
 
 


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
58  
  
APPENDIX B – Examples of Suspicious Transactions  
  
 
B-1  
General Comments  
  
B-1-1   
The list of situations given below is intended to highlight some basic ways in which 
money may be laundered or used for TF purposes. While each individual situation 
may not be sufficient to suggest that ML/TF is taking place, a combination of such 
situations may be indicative of a suspicious transaction. The list is intended solely 
as an aid, and must not be applied as a routine instrument in place of common 
sense.  
  
B-1-2   
The list is not exhaustive and may be updated due to changing circumstances and 
new methods of laundering money or financing terrorism. Banks are to refer to 
STRO’s website for the latest list of red flags10.   
  
B-1-3   
A customer’s declarations regarding the background of such transactions should 
be checked for plausibility. Not every explanation offered by the customer can be 
accepted without scrutiny.  
  
B-1-4   
It is reasonable to suspect any customer who is reluctant to provide normal 
information and documents required routinely by the bank in the course of the 
business relations. Banks should pay attention to customers who provide minimal, 
false or misleading information, or when applying to open an account, provide 
information that is difficult or expensive for the bank to verify.  
  
  
 
B-2  
Transactions Which Do Not Make Economic Sense  
  
i) 
Transactions that cannot be reconciled with the usual activities of the 
customer, for example ―   
  
(a) the use of Letters of Credit and other methods of trade finance to move 
money between countries or jurisdictions where such trade is not 
consistent with the customer’s usual business;  
  
(b) payment by unrelated third parties into a customer’s credit card or 
charge card accounts via cash, cheques or debit cards;  
  
(c) payment into a customer’s credit card or charge card accounts received 
from different locations or accounts.  
  
 
10 The website address as at 28 March 2024:  https://www.police.gov.sg/Advisories/Crime/Commercial-Crimes/Suspicious-
Transaction-Reporting-Office 
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
59  
  
ii) 
A customer relationship with the bank where a customer has a large number 
of accounts with the same bank, and has frequent transfers between 
different accounts.  
  
iii) 
Transactions in which assets are withdrawn immediately after being 
deposited, unless the customer’s business activities furnish a plausible 
reason for immediate withdrawal.  
  
iv) 
Transactions which, without plausible reason, result in the intensive use of 
what was previously a relatively inactive account, such as a customer’s 
account which shows virtually no normal personal or business-related 
activities but is used to receive or disburse unusually large sums which have 
no obvious purpose or relationship to the customer or his business.  
  
v) 
Large amounts of funds deposited into an account, which is inconsistent 
with the salary of the customer.  
  
vi) 
Provision of bank guarantees or indemnities as collateral for loans between 
third parties that are not in conformity with market conditions.  
  
vii) 
Unexpected repayment of an overdue credit without any plausible 
explanation.  
  
viii) 
Unexpected repayment of credit facilities by a third party on behalf of the 
customer.   
  
ix) 
Back-to-back loans without any identifiable and legally admissible purpose.  
  
x) 
Cash deposited at one location is withdrawn at another location almost 
immediately.  
  
xi) 
Customers running large positive credit card or charge card balances.  
  
  
 
B-3  
Transactions Involving Large Amounts of Cash  
  
i) 
Frequent withdrawal of large cash amounts that do not appear to be justified 
by the customer’s business activity.  
  
ii) 
Frequent withdrawal of large amounts by means of cheques, including 
traveller’s cheques.  
  
iii) 
Customers making large and frequent cash deposits but cheques drawn on 
the accounts are mostly to individuals and firms not normally associated 
with their business.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
60  
  
iv) 
Large cash withdrawals from a previously dormant/inactive account, or from 
an account which has just received an unexpected large credit from abroad.  
  
v) 
A large amount of cash is withdrawn and immediately deposited into another 
account.  
  
vi) 
Exchanging an unusually large amount of small-denominated notes for 
those of higher denomination.  
  
vii) 
Purchasing or selling of foreign currencies in substantial amounts by cash 
settlement despite the customer having an account with the bank.  
  
viii) 
Company transactions, both deposits and withdrawals, that are 
denominated by unusually large amounts of cash, rather than by way of 
debits and credits normally associated with the normal commercial 
operations of the company (e.g. cheques, letters of credit, bills of 
exchange).  
  
ix) 
Depositing cash by means of numerous credit slips by a customer such that 
the amount of each deposit is not substantial, but the cumulative total of 
which is substantial.  
  
x) 
The deposit of unusually large amounts of cash by a customer to cover 
requests for bankers’ drafts, money transfers or other negotiable and readily 
marketable money instruments.  
  
xi) 
Large cash deposits using night safe facilities and cash deposit machines, 
thereby avoiding direct contact with the bank.  
  
xii) 
Customers who together, and simultaneously, use separate tellers to 
conduct large cash transactions or foreign exchange transactions.  
  
xiii) 
Customers whose deposits contain counterfeit notes or forged instruments.  
  
xiv) 
Customers who use cash advances from a credit card or charge card 
account to purchase money orders or bank drafts to transfer funds to foreign 
destinations.  
  
xv) 
Customers who take cash advances from a credit card or charge card 
account to deposit into another account.  
  
xvi) 
Large cash payments for outstanding credit card or charge card balances.  
  
xvii) 
Customers who maintain positive balances on their credit card or charge 
card and then request cash advances or other type of refunds.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
61  
  
  
 
B-4  
Transactions Involving Accounts of the Customer with the Bank   
  
i) 
High velocity of funds through an account, i.e. low beginning and ending 
daily balances, which do not reflect the large volume of funds flowing 
through an account.  
  
ii) 
Substantial increases in deposits of cash or negotiable instruments by a 
professional firm or company, using customer accounts or in-house 
company or trust accounts, especially if the deposits are promptly 
transferred between other customer company and trust accounts.  
  
iii) 
Matching of payments out with credits paid in by cash on the same or 
previous day.  
  
iv) 
Transfers of funds from a company’s account to an individual account of an 
employee or persons related to the employee and vice-versa.  
  
v) 
Transfers of funds from various third parties into an account, which is 
inconsistent with the nature of the customer’s business.  
  
vi) 
Multiple depositors using a single account.  
  
vii) 
Paying in large third party cheques endorsed in favour of the customer.  
viii) 
Frequent deposits of a company’s cheques into an employee’s account.  
  
ix)  
An account operated in the name of an offshore company with structured 
movement of funds.  
   
 
B-5  
Transactions Involving Transfers Abroad  
  
i) 
A customer who appears to have accounts with several banks in the same 
locality, especially when the bank is aware of a regular consolidated process 
from such accounts prior to a request for onward transmission of the funds 
elsewhere.  
  
ii) 
Large and regular payments that cannot be clearly identified as bona fide 
transactions, from and to countries or jurisdictions associated with (a) the 
production, processing or marketing of narcotics or other illegal drugs or (b) 
other criminal conduct.  
  
iii) 
Transfer of a large amount of money abroad by a person who does not 
maintain an account with the bank and who fails to provide a legitimate 
reason when asked.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
62  
  
iv) 
Substantial increase in cash deposits by a customer without apparent 
cause, especially if such deposits are subsequently transferred within a 
short period out of the account or to a destination not normally associated 
with the customer.  
  
v) 
Repeated transfers of large amounts of money abroad accompanied by the 
instruction to pay the beneficiary in cash.  
  
vi) 
Building up large balances, not consistent with the known turnover of the 
customer’s business, and subsequent transfer to account(s) held overseas.  
  
vii) 
Cash payments remitted to a single account by a large number of different 
persons without an adequate explanation.  
  
viii) 
“U-turn” transactions, i.e. where funds received from a person or company 
in a foreign country or jurisdiction are immediately remitted to another 
person or company in the same country or foreign jurisdiction, or to the 
sender’s account in another country or jurisdiction.  
  
  
 
B-6  
Investment-Related Transactions   
  
i) 
Purchasing of securities to be held by the bank in safe custody, where this 
does not appear appropriate given the customer’s apparent standing.  
  
ii) 
Requests by a customer for investment management services where the 
source of funds is unclear or not consistent with the customer’s apparent 
standing.  
 
       iii)        Larger or unusual settlements of securities transactions in cash form.  
  
iv) 
Buying and selling of a security with no discernible purpose or in 
circumstances which appear unusual.  
  
v) 
Large transfers of securities to non-related accounts.  
  
  
 
B-7  
Merchants Acquired by a Bank for Credit Card or Charge Card Transactions  
  
i) 
Principals of the merchant appear to be unfamiliar with, or lack a clear 
understanding of, the merchant’s business.  
  
ii) 
Proposed transaction volume, refunds or charge-backs are inconsistent 
with information obtained from on-site visit or merchant/industry peer group.  
  
iii) 
Unusual or excessive cash advances or credit refunds.  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
63  
  
  
iv) 
Indications that a merchant’s credit card or charge card terminal is being 
used by any third party.  
  
  
 
B-8  
Transactions Involving Unidentified Parties   
  
i) 
Transfer of money to another bank without indication of the beneficiary.  
  
ii) 
Payment orders with inaccurate information concerning the person placing 
the orders.  
  
iii) 
Use of pseudonyms or numbered accounts for effecting commercial 
transactions by enterprises active in trade and industry.  
  
iv) 
Holding in trust of shares in an unlisted company whose activities cannot be 
ascertained by the bank.  
  
v) 
Provision of collateral by way of pledge or guarantee without any discernible 
plausible reason by third parties unknown to the bank and who have no 
identifiable close relationship with the customer.  
  
vi) 
Customers who wish to maintain a number of trustee or customers’ 
accounts that do not appear consistent with their type of business, including 
transactions that involve nominee names.  
  
  
 
B-9  
Tax Crimes Related Transactions  
  
i) 
Negative tax-related reports from the media or other credible information 
sources.  
  
ii) 
Unconvincing or unclear purpose or motivation for having accounts opened 
in Singapore.  
  
iii) 
Originating sources of multiple or significant deposits/withdrawals are not 
consistent with the declared purpose of the account.   
  
iv) 
Inability to reasonably justify frequent and large wire transfers from or to a 
country or jurisdiction that presents higher risk of tax evasion.  
  
v) 
Re-deposit or reinvestment of funds back into the original country or 
jurisdiction after being transferred to another country or jurisdiction, often a 
tax haven with poor track record on CDD or record keeping requirements.   
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
64  
  
vi) 
Accounts managed by external asset managers who may not be adequately 
regulated and supervised.  
  
vii) 
Purchase or sale of large amounts of precious metals by a customer which 
is not in line with his business or background.  
  
viii) 
Purchase of bank cheques on a large scale by a customer.  
  
ix) 
Extensive or increased use of safe deposit facilities that do not appear to be 
justified by the background of the customer and for no apparent reason.  
  
  
 
B-10  
Trade-based Related Transactions  
  
i) 
The commodity is shipped to (or from) a country or jurisdiction designated 
as “higher risk” for ML/TF activities.  
  
ii) 
The type of commodity shipped is designated as “higher risk” for ML/TF 
activities11.  
  
iii) 
Significant discrepancies appear between the description of the commodity 
on the bill of lading and the invoice.  
  
iv) 
Significant discrepancies appear between the description of the goods on 
the bill of lading (or invoice) and the actual goods shipped.  
  
v) 
Significant discrepancies appear between the value of the commodity 
reported on the invoice and the commodity’s fair market value.  
  
vi) 
The size of the shipment appears inconsistent with the scale of the exporter 
or importer’s regular business activities.  
  
vii) 
The type of commodity shipped appears inconsistent with the exporter or 
importer’s regular business activities.  
  
viii) 
The method of payment appears inconsistent with the risk characteristics of 
the transaction12.  
  
ix) 
The transaction involves the receipt of cash (or other payments) from third 
party entities that have no apparent connection with the transaction.  
 
11 For example, high-value, low-volume goods (e.g. consumer electronics), which have high turnover rates and present 
valuation difficulties.  
  
12 For example, the use of an advance payment for a shipment from a new supplier in a high-risk country.  
  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
65  
  
x) 
The transaction involves the use of repeatedly amended or frequently 
extended letters of credit.  
  
xi) 
The transaction involves the use of front (or shell) companies.  
  
xii) 
The commodity is transhipped through one or more countries or jurisdictions 
for no apparent economic reason.  
 
xiii) 
The shipment does not make economic sense13.  
  
  
 
B-11  
Other Types of Transactions   
  
i) 
Account activity is not commensurate with the customer’s known profile 
(e.g. age, occupation, income).  
  
ii) 
The customer fails to reasonably justify the purpose of a transaction when 
queried by the bank.   
  
iii) 
Transactions with countries or entities that are reported to be associated 
with terrorism activities or with persons that have been designated as 
terrorists.  
 
iv) 
Frequent changes to the address or authorised signatories.  
  
v) 
A large amount of funds is received and immediately used as collateral for 
banking facilities.  
  
vi) 
When a young person (aged about 17-26) opens an account and either 
withdraws or transfers the funds within a short period, which could be an 
indication of terrorism financing.  
  
vii) 
When a person receives funds from a religious or charitable organisation 
and utilises the funds for purchase of assets or transfers out the funds within 
a relatively short period.  
  
viii) 
Customers requesting for a credit card or charge card to be sent to an 
international or domestic destination other than the customer’s address or 
place of business.  
  
ix) 
Indications of a credit card or charge card merchant refunding payments to 
any person without an underlying purchase of goods or services.  
  
 
13 For example, the use of a forty-foot container to transport a small amount of relatively low-value goods.  


GUIDELINES TO MAS NOTICE 626 ON PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING AND 
COUNTERING THE FINANCING OF TERRORISM  
  
  
66  
  
x) 
The customer uses intermediaries which are not subject to adequate 
AML/CFT laws.  
  
xi) 
Transactions that are suspected to be in violation of another country’s or 
jurisdiction’s foreign exchange laws and regulations.  
  
  
  
