 
01 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Guidelines 
 JULY 2024 
INTERNAL CONTROLS 
 
 


 
 
2 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
CONTENTS 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
4 
1.1 
Overview 
4 
1.2 
Application of Guidelines 
4 
2 
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT 
4 
2.1 
Policies and Procedures 
4 
2.2 
Code of Conduct 
5 
2.3 
Delegation of Authority 
6 
2.4 
Segregation of Duties 
6 
2.5 
Competency and Resources 
7 
2.6 
Audit 
7 
2.7 
Compliance 
9 
2.8 
Mandatory Leave 
10 
2.9 
Handling of Complaints 
10 
2.10   Staff Compensation 
11 
2.11   Recruitment 
11 
2.12  Staff Training and Education 
11 
3 
BUSINESS PROCESS CONTROLS 
12 
3.1 
Dealings with Customers 
12 
3.2 
Customer Due Diligence 
13 
3.3 
Legal Documentation 
14 
3.4 
Accounting and Record Keeping 
14 
3.5 
Management Information Systems 
14 
3.6 
Physical Controls 
16 
3.7 
Off-Premises and After Hours Trading 
16 
3.8 
New Products/Business Lines/Activities 
16 
3.9 
Valuation of Assets 
17 
3.10   Verification and Reconciliation 
18 
3.11   Confirmation 
19 
3.12   Settlement 
20 


 
 
3 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.13 
 Securitisation 
20 
CHECKLIST OF SOUND PRACTICES TO ADOPT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
4 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
1 
INTRODUCTION  
 
1.1 OVERVIEW  
1.1.1 
A system of effective internal controls is fundamental to the safe and sound management of 
institutions. Effective internal controls help an institution protect and enhance shareholders’ value and 
reduce the possibility of unexpected losses or damage to its reputation.   
  
1.1.2 
Internal controls are the policies, procedures and processes established by the Board of 
Directors (Board) and senior management to provide reasonable assurance on the safety, effectiveness 
and efficiency of the institution’s operations, the reliability of financial and managerial reporting and 
compliance with regulatory requirements.   
  
1.2 APPLICATION OF GUIDELINES  
1.2.1 
This chapter provides guidance on sound and prudent internal controls.1 The guidelines are 
not intended to be exhaustive nor do they prescribe a uniform set of requirements on internal controls 
for all institutions. The extent and degree to which an institution adopts these guidelines should be 
commensurate with the institution’s risk and business profile.   
  
1.2.2 
This chapter is divided into two sections: control environment and business process controls. 
The first section outlines the key elements of the control environment which set the tone for the control 
culture of an institution and influence the control consciousness of its staff. The second section focuses 
on the internal controls in specific areas or activities within an institution.   
 
2 
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT  
2.1 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES  
2.1.1 
An institution should institute adequate internal control systems and reporting to assist its 
Board, or its delegated authority, in the fulfilment of its responsibilities for oversight over the institution’s 
risk management framework. The authority and responsibilities of each control function should be 
 
1 Institutions should also take into account applicable industry standards such as the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision “The Internal Audit Function in Banks” (June 2012) and “Implementation of the 
Compliance Principles” (August 2008), where appropriate, and subsequent or other relevant publications 
that may be issued from time to time. 


 
 
5 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
properly documented. The head of each control function should periodically review such document and 
submit suggestions for any changes to senior management and the Board for approval.   
  
2.1.2 
An institution should have comprehensive and sound policies approved by the Board for 
prudent management of significant risks arising from its business activities and operations. The approved 
policies should be consistent with the nature, complexity and materiality of the institution’s activities. 
There should be a clear delineation of roles, responsibilities and accountability for the implementation 
of consistent policies across the institution.   
  
2.1.3 
An institution should establish appropriate procedures and processes to implement its 
policies. These should be documented in procedural manuals. The manuals should be periodically 
reviewed to ensure that they reflect current practices. There should also be adequate systems to monitor 
compliance with established policies and procedures. Deviations from such policies and procedures 
should be independently investigated, reported and addressed by the relevant parties.   
  
2.2 CODE OF CONDUCT  
2.2.1 
It is in the interest of an institution to conduct its activities with prudence and integrity. In this 
regard, the institution should establish a code of conduct that is commensurate with its structure and 
complexity of operations.   
  
2.2.2 
The code of conduct should state the ethical values of the institution and prescribe guidelines 
for employees to observe when discharging their duties. The code should cover areas such as acceptance 
of gifts and entertainment, conflicts of interest, safeguarding of confidentiality of information, and 
disclosure of and restrictions on personal investments.   
  
2.2.3 
In addition to general guidelines, an institution should prescribe specific guidelines for 
operations in functional areas such as investment banking, private banking and treasury. For instance, 
with regard to treasury and financial derivatives activities, institution should take into consideration the 
good market practices outlined in “The Singapore Guide to Conduct and Market Practices for Treasury 
Activities” when coming up with specific guidelines for this area. Additionally, there should be 
independent and close supervision over the conduct of dealers and their relationship with brokers. The 
institution should monitor the reason for using particular brokers and ensure that trades are only 
conducted with approved brokers. There should be clear guidelines on the acceptance of entertainment 
and gifts from brokers. Broker statements should be reviewed by staff independent of the trading 
function and proper records should be maintained on benefits received from brokers. Unusual trends in 
benefits or consideration received from brokers should be highlighted. The guidelines should also apply 
to dealings with customers who have frequent and sizeable transactions with the institution.   


 
 
6 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
  
2.2.4 
An institution should have adequate policies, procedures and controls to address conflict of 
interest situations. It should require employees to disclose such conflicts on a timely basis. These cases 
should be escalated to either the Board or senior management, and disclosed to customers where 
relevant. Dealers should not be trading for their personal accounts.   
  
2.2.5 
An institution should ensure that all personnel understand and adhere to the code of conduct. 
The code should come under the purview of a senior staff or an appropriate unit. Employees should be 
required to acknowledge in writing that they have read, understood and will observe the code. 
Disciplinary actions should be taken against those who breach the requirements.   
  
2.2.6 
The Board or senior management should periodically review the code of conduct in the light 
of changes in the internal and external environment.   
  
2.3 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY  
2.3.1 
An institution should clearly define the responsibilities and levels of authority required for the 
various types of activities and exposures. Approving limits assigned to personnel should be commensurate 
with their seniority and responsibilities.   
  
2.3.2 
Any delegation of authority should be clearly documented and should specify, among other 
things, the exact authority being delegated, the authority of recipients to further delegate authority and 
the restrictions placed on the exercise of delegated authority. The institution should also have adequate 
monitoring systems to ensure that activities are properly authorised. Departures from the approval limit 
structure should be promptly reported to the Board and senior management.   
  
2.4 SEGREGATION OF DUTIES  
2.4.1 
An institution should ensure that there is adequate segregation of duties to guard against the 
risk of unauthorised transactions, fraudulent activities and manipulation of data for personal gain or for 
concealment of irregularities or financial losses. It should have processes that restrict any one staff from 
being able to handle an entire transactional flow.   
  
2.4.2 
A control function should be sufficiently independent from senior management and other 
functions to ensure proper checks and balances, provide an objective perspective on strategies, issues 
and potential violations related to their areas of responsibility, as well as implement or oversee the 
implementation of corrective measures where necessary.   
  


 
 
7 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
2.4.3 
An institution should conduct periodic reviews of the responsibilities of key personnel to 
minimise areas of potential conflict of interest and ensure that there are independent checks for proper 
segregation of duties. Inadequate segregation of duties could occur in, but are not limited to, the following 
instances where an individual has responsibility for:   
  
(a) 
front office and risk management functions (e.g. credit marketing and credit 
administration);   
 
(b) 
trade execution and operations functions (e.g. trade confirmation, trade settlement, 
reconciliation of front office and back office data on trades, reconciliation and 
accounting);   
 
(c) 
approval for funds disbursement and the actual disbursement; and  
 
(d) 
initiating and releasing payment instructions.   
  
2.5 COMPETENCY AND RESOURCES  
An institution should ensure that there is an appropriate balance in the skills and resources of 
the back office, control functions and operational management relative to the business origination units. 
Staff of back office and control functions should have sufficient expertise and authority within the 
organisation (and where appropriate, in the case of control functions, sufficient access to the institution’s 
Board or senior management) to provide an effective check and balance to the business origination units.    
2.6 AUDIT  
2.6.1 
An institution should have in place an adequately staffed, independent and permanent 
internal audit function responsible for assessing whether existing policies, processes and internal controls 
(including risk management, compliance and corporate governance processes) are independent, 
effective, appropriate, and remain sufficient for the institution’s business.     
  
2.6.2 
The institution should appoint senior personnel who are fit and proper to oversee the internal 
audit function. The internal audit function should also have appropriate independence with reporting 
lines to the institution’s Board or to an audit committee of the Board (the “Audit Committee”). The Board 
should ensure that the members of the Audit Committee are suitably qualified to discharge their 
responsibilities. The terms of reference, composition, quorum and frequency of meeting of the Audit 
Committee should also be formalised and clearly documented.   
  


 
 
8 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
2.6.3 
The Audit Committee should carry out its duties in an objective and impartial manner. It 
should be empowered to review internal audit plans, evaluate the performance of auditors, decide on 
remuneration of auditors and assess whether senior management has promptly rectified audit findings. 
The Audit Committee should also ensure that auditors possess the necessary experience and expertise 
and are competent and independent of the areas under review.   
  
2.6.4 
The internal audit function should have sufficient stature within the institution to ensure that 
senior management reacts to and acts upon its recommendations. Internal auditors should be 
empowered to initiate a review of any area or any function consistent with its terms of reference. The 
internal auditor function should be suitably trained and have relevant experience to understand and 
evaluate the business they are auditing.  
  
2.6.5 
The internal audit function should employ a methodology that identifies the material risks run 
by the institution. In addition, the internal audit function should prepare an audit plan which is reviewed 
regularly based on its own risk assessment, and allocate audit resources accordingly. Internal auditors 
should vary the audit frequency according to the level of risk. The scope and frequency of internal audits 
should be increased if significant weaknesses are found or if there are significant changes to the risk 
oversight process, product lines, modelling methodologies, internal controls or risk profile. To facilitate 
the development of sound controls, auditors should be allowed to comment on the product and system 
development process at an early stage, though the level of their involvement should not compromise 
their independence or their ability to objectively review the new product or system subsequently.   
  
2.6.6 
The internal audit function should be kept informed in a timely manner of any material 
changes made to the institution’s risk management strategy, policies or processes. They should also have 
full access to and communication with any member of staff as well as full access to records, files or data 
of the institution and its affiliates, whenever relevant to the performance of their duties. Internal auditors 
should also have the authority to assess any outsourced functions.   
  
2.6.7 
Internal auditors are expected to ensure that policies and processes are complied with. This 
includes assessing compliance with risk limits and the reliability and timeliness of reports submitted to 
the Board and senior management. In addition, the internal auditors should check for proper and 
adequate segregation of duties and reporting lines for front office and risk management personnel, and 
whether there is adequate oversight by competent managers.   
  
2.6.8 
Internal audit reports should be timely and distributed to senior management who have the 
responsibility and authority to implement corrective measures. Internal auditors of an institution with its 
head office located overseas should report their findings directly to the head office. Internal auditors 
should perform follow-up activities to ensure that findings have been satisfactorily addressed. The Audit 


 
 
9 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Committee should receive reports of material audit findings. It should monitor and track the actions taken 
to address audit findings and ensure effective and timely response by senior management.   
  
2.6.9 
Internal auditors should be empowered to decline doing an audit or review, or taking on any 
other responsibilities requested by management, if this is believed to be inconsistent with their terms of 
reference or with the strategy and audit plan approved by the Board.  In any case, they should inform the 
Board and seek its guidance.  
  
2.7 COMPLIANCE  
2.7.1 
An institution should have in place an adequately staffed, permanent and independent 
compliance function to assist senior management in managing effectively the compliance risks faced by 
the institution. The head of the compliance function should be fit and proper. The compliance function 
should have access to, and report to the Board or its delegated authority on matters such as:  
  
(a) 
an assessment of the key compliance risks the institution faces and the steps being 
taken to address them;   
  
(b) 
an assessment of how the various parts of the institution are performing against 
compliance standards and goals; and  
  
(c) 
any compliance issues involving management or persons in positions of major 
responsibility within the institution and the status of any associated investigations or 
other actions being taken; material compliance violations or concerns involving any 
other person or unit of the institution and the status of any associated investigations 
or other actions being taken.  
  
2.7.2 
The Compliance officers should be suitably trained, equipped with the relevant experience 
and vested with sufficient authority within the institution to perform their role effectively. They should 
also have the authority to communicate directly with any personnel and have unrestricted access to such 
information as they need to carry out their responsibilities.   
  
2.7.3 
The compliance function should address compliance shortcomings and violations, including 
ensuring that adequate disciplinary actions are taken where appropriate and requisite reports are 
promptly made to the institution’s supervisor or other authorities. The Compliance function should also 
provide advice and training on regulatory requirements and standards of professional conduct to staff, 
conduct periodic reviews to assess compliance with policies, procedures and regulatory requirements, 
and facilitate a whistle-blowing process.   
  


 
 
10 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
2.7.4 
The Head of Compliance should have the authority and obligation to promptly inform the 
Chair of the Board directly in the event of any major noncompliance by a member of management or a 
material non-compliance by the institution with an external obligation if in either case he or she believes 
that senior management or other persons in authority at the institution are not taking the necessary 
corrective actions and a delay would be detrimental to the institution or its stakeholders.  
 
2.8 MANDATORY LEAVE  
2.8.1 
An institution should have personnel policies requiring staff in risk-taking, risk management 
and risk control positions to take mandatory block leave of at least 5 consecutive business days each year. 
Departures from this policy should be allowed only under exceptional circumstances and should be 
formally approved.   
  
2.8.2 
Staff on mandatory leave should not be allowed to transact, execute instructions or perform 
their assigned duties during their leave of absence. Supervisors on such leave should refrain from giving 
operational instructions to their staff during this period. The duties, responsibilities and the corresponding 
authority of the staff should be fully delegated to a covering officer during his or her absence.   
  
2.9 HANDLING OF COMPLAINTS  
2.9.1 
A high frequency of complaints can be symptomatic of inadequate controls or non-compliance 
with existing procedures. Hence, an institution should have adequate procedures for recording, 
investigating and monitoring complaints from customers. Steps should be taken to ensure that complaints 
are handled fairly, consistently and promptly. Staff responsible for dealing with complaints should be 
independent of the subjects of the complaints. The institution should also take prompt action to rectify 
system and control weaknesses highlighted by the complaints.   
  
2.9.2 
Senior management should ensure that customer complaints are adequately addressed. In 
this regard, periodic reports on complaints should be submitted to senior management. Reports could 
include information such as the source of complaints, volume and type of complaints, how complaints 
were addressed, and whether disciplinary action was taken against staff who breached internal guidelines 
or failed to uphold the requisite standard of professionalism in discharging their duties.   
  
2.9.3 
The Board or an appropriate Board committee should receive periodic summary reports on 
complaints and complaint handling.   
   
  


 
 
11 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
2.10  STAFF COMPENSATION  
An institution should ensure that its compensation policies can attract and retain competent 
and experienced personnel but do not inadvertently provide incentives for inappropriate activities. 
Compensation policies for risk management, control and valuation functions should be sufficiently 
independent of the performance of trading activities or sales and revenue targets. This is to avoid 
providing incentives for such staff to condone excessive risk-taking in the institution. Even in deciding on 
compensation for its revenue generating and management positions, the institution should take into 
account the individual’s consistency of performance, adherence to the code of conduct, internal 
guidelines and regulatory requirements and longer term performance measures, rather than just short-
term results. An institution should maintain proper documentation of staff appraisals for future 
reference.   
2.11  RECRUITMENT  
  
An institution should ensure that individuals considered for employment are adequately screened 
for experience, professional capabilities, honesty and integrity. Screening should include background 
employment checks to assess character, integrity and track record.   
  
2.12  STAFF TRAINING AND EDUCATION  
2.12.1 
An institution should ensure that its staff are equipped with knowledge of new products as 
well as changes in legislation and regulations, and adequately trained to enhance their efficiency and 
effectiveness. It should identify skill gaps and assess training needs regularly.  Training records should be 
maintained. Training should be regular and appropriately structured to enable staff to understand and 
manage the complexities of the functional areas concerned.   
  
2.12.2 
An institution should, where practicable and appropriate, implement periodic job rotation to 
help staff broaden their skill sets. This may assist in providing continuity in areas affected by staff 
turnover. The institution should also be conscious that high staff turnover can undermine the 
effectiveness of its internal control systems. This could be mitigated to some extent by ensuring that 
every staff within the function is familiar with the institution’s policies, procedures and processes.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
12 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3 
BUSINESS PROCESS CONTROLS  
 
3.1 DEALINGS WITH CUSTOMERS  
3.1.1 
An institution should have clear written policies, approved by the Board or senior 
management, on issues relating to dealings with customers and risk disclosures. Such policies are aimed 
at reducing the risk of misunderstandings and contractual disputes with customers.   
  
3.1.2 
Dealings with customers should be conducted in good faith and in a manner that promotes 
public confidence in the integrity of the market. In this regard, an institution should provide proper 
training and closely supervise staff who deal with customers in more complex products such as structured 
investment products, financial derivatives and treasury instruments. The institution should also 
periodically review written agreements and other documents for such transactions to incorporate 
changes in market practices and laws.   
  
3.1.3 
An institution should implement procedures to assess the financial sophistication, risk 
tolerance and needs of its customers. Where appropriate, the institution should provide risk disclosure 
information, taking into account the sophistication of the customer and complexity of the transaction. 
This will enable the customer to better understand the risks as well as the nature and material terms and 
conditions of the transaction.   
  
3.1.4 
When an institution is instructed by a customer to proceed with a transaction against its 
advice, the decision should be documented together with the institution’s analysis and risk disclosure 
information provided to the customer. This will safeguard the institution’s interest if the customer were 
to file a claim against the institution for losses incurred. In addition, such transactions should be reviewed 
by an appropriately independent and competent department or personnel and brought to the attention 
of senior management of the institution.   
  
3.1.5 
An institution should clarify with customers the nature of its relationship with them to 
minimise the possibility of customers incorrectly presuming that the institution has acted in an advisory 
or similar role in the transaction.   
  
3.1.6 
An institution should promptly resolve disputed transactions with customers. It should 
maintain records of telephone calls of trades and discussions with customers on proposed transactions 
to facilitate expeditious resolution of discrepancies and disputes. The institution should prohibit the use 
of mobile phones or phones outside the trading room for trading except in exceptional circumstances 
and only where adequate mitigating controls are in place (See paragraph 3.7 on “Off-Premises and After 
Hours Trading”).   


 
 
13 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.1.7 
Disputes with customers should be independently investigated. The investigations should be 
properly documented. Reports on disputes should be submitted to management for review. While it 
attempts to resolve the dispute, the institution should consider the appropriateness of taking measures 
to mitigate further losses arising from the disputed transaction. Significant disputes with customers 
should also be escalated to the Board and senior management.   
  
3.2 CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE2  
3.2.1 
Sound customer due diligence (CDD) policies and procedures will reduce the risk of an 
institution being used as an intermediary for money laundering or other illegal activities. Therefore, CDD 
policies and procedures should be reviewed and updated periodically. Customer identification is an 
integral part of the CDD process. An institution should thus obtain satisfactory evidence of the identity 
and legal existence of potential customers before establishing a business relationship with them. The 
institution should not open accounts or conduct business with customers who insist on anonymity or use 
fictitious names. It should apply enhanced due diligence for higher risk customers.   
 
3.2.2 
An institution should verify the identity of customers through inspection of passports, identity 
cards or other official documents. It should also ensure that they have up-to-date customer profiles.   
  
3.2.3 
An institution should establish policies on the minimum information required for different 
types of account holders (e.g. personal, corporate, beneficial, trustee, nominee and intermediary) to guide 
staff during the account opening process. Outstanding account opening documents should be monitored 
by staff independent of those with front-line responsibilities. Exception reports on long outstanding 
account opening documents should be generated for periodic review by management.   
  
3.2.4 
An institution should be cognisant of risks associated with inactive and dormant accounts and 
ensure that there are appropriate controls in place. These could include, among others, policies on the 
definition of inactive and dormant accounts, periodic review of such accounts and conditions under which 
a dormant account could be reinstated. In addition, the institution should have appropriate procedures 
for reactivating accounts, including authenticating the identity of the customer that is reactivating the 
account.   
 
3.2.5 
An institution should have controls in place to ensure that opening and closure of accounts 
are properly authorised, with the basis and approval clearly documented.   
  
 
2 This section should be read in conjunction with MAS Notices and Guidelines on Prevention of Money Laundering & 
Countering the Financing of Terrorism.  


 
 
14 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.3 LEGAL DOCUMENTATION  
An institution should have written agreements with customers and counterparties, where 
appropriate and in line with market practice, specifying the duties and responsibilities of each party. It 
should have clear guidelines and policies to ensure that a counterparty has proper authority to enter into 
a transaction. The institution should verify that contracts or agreements governing transactions are legally 
sound and enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions. It should also institute proper controls to ensure that 
legal documentation is properly executed, confirmed, maintained and safeguarded.   
3.4 ACCOUNTING AND RECORD KEEPING  
3.4.1 
An institution should maintain adequate controls over its accounting and other record-
keeping processes for all business activities. The accounting and financial reporting systems should be 
able to produce timely and accurate data on an institution’s financial condition, performance and risks, 
on demand and at regular intervals, for effective management and control of all its operations as well as 
for financial and regulatory reporting.   
  
3.4.2 
An effective accounting system has to, among other things, be able to identify and record all 
valid transactions and describe the transactions in sufficient detail to permit proper classification of 
transactions for financial and regulatory reporting. There should also be adequate documentation and 
records of transactions for audit trail purposes.  
  
3.4.3 
An institution should also ensure that staff responsible for accounting and record-keeping 
functions are independent of front office activities.  
   
3.4.4 
An institution should also establish the minimum retention period for taped telephone 
conversations and documents, taking into account the relevant laws, rules and regulations. Financial 
transaction documents may be retained as originals, copies, on microfilm or in electronic form, taking into 
account whether such forms are admissible in court or in compliance with regulatory requirements. Such 
records should be properly kept and stored in a manner that is reasonably practicable to retrieve.   
  
3.5 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS  
3.5.1 An institution should have adequate management information systems (MIS) for effective 
management and control of all aspects of its operations. The sophistication of the MIS should be 
commensurate with the complexity and diversity of the institution’s operations. The institution should 
consider key elements such as timeliness, accuracy, consistency, completeness and relevance when 
developing its MIS. The MIS should also be sufficiently flexible to cope with various contingencies and 
have the capability to monitor compliance with the institution’s established policies, procedures and 
limits.   
  


 
 
15 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.5.2 An accurate, informative and timely MIS is essential to an institution’s risk management process. 
The institution’s risk exposures should be reported to the Board and senior management using a common 
framework for measuring and limiting risks. Exposures and profit and loss positions for trading positions 
should be reported at least daily to managers who supervise but do not themselves engage in position-
taking activities, and to risk managers who report independently and regularly to the Board and senior 
management on the risk-taking activities of the institution. When market conditions dictate, more 
frequent reports should be made to update the Board and senior management on the changes in the 
institution’s risk profile. It is essential that the Board and senior management are promptly informed of 
unanticipated changes, progressively deteriorating positions or other significant issues arising from the 
institution’s positions, even when limits are not exceeded. Additionally, management reports should be 
prepared by a party independent of the position-taking units.   
  
3.5.3 An institution using different information systems for various transactions entered into by 
customers should ensure that all transactions of an individual customer are captured and consolidated in 
the MIS reports. Processes should be in place to ensure data integrity, especially if the reports generated 
are based on information from different source systems.   
  
3.5.4 An institution should ensure that systems support and operational capabilities can accommodate 
the various treasury and financial derivatives activities the institution engages in. These capabilities should 
enable the institution to process and settle transactions efficiently, accurately monitor risks on a timely 
basis and provide a snapshot of the risks inherent in all on-and off-balance sheet activities. Where an 
institution engages in leveraged treasury or financial derivatives transactions, its systems should be able 
to reliably track collateral values.   
  
3.5.5 An institution should deploy the necessary resources to develop and maintain the operations and 
systems supporting its activities. Operations personnel should be knowledgeable, competent and 
experienced in the activities the institution engages in. The sophistication of the systems support and the 
operational capacity should be commensurate with the size and complexity of these operations.   
  
3.5.6 An effective MIS should facilitate an institution’s monitoring of compliance with internal controls 
and regulatory requirements, and provide reasonable assurance that these are being complied with. For 
instance, an institution could use its MIS to establish profiles on the expected type and volume of 
transactions of its customers. Transactions that are inconsistent with a customer’s profile should be 
investigated.   
  
3.5.7 Reports on transactions should be sent to management with oversight responsibility of business 
and operations. The frequency and the amount of detail in these reports should be varied according to 
the level of senior management reviewing the reports. Follow-up actions should be properly documented 
and reported to senior management, and suspicious transactions reported to the relevant authorities.   


 
 
16 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.6 PHYSICAL CONTROLS  
3.6.1 
An institution should ensure that there is adequate physical security for its place of business 
and cash-in-transit. Access to sensitive areas such as the dealing room, computer room and funds transfer 
area should also be granted strictly on a need-to basis to minimise the risk of unauthorised transactions, 
fraud or disruption to operations.   
  
3.6.2 
Items such as test keys, master IDs for SWIFT, cash and securities, should be subject to dual 
control. Their access should be restricted to authorised personnel and recorded for proper accountability. 
Fireproof safes and safe deposit vaults should be used for the storage and safe custody of assets such as 
cash and securities.   
   
  
3.7 OFF-PREMISES AND AFTER HOURS TRADING  
  
An institution should state in its policies and procedures whether off-premises and after hours 
trading are permissible. If such transactions are allowed, adequate controls should be in place to ensure 
that transactions are executed by authorised personnel and within the approved limits. These 
transactions must be captured in the institution’s systems for processing and reporting as soon as they 
are executed. Confirmations must be sent to customers within a reasonable period of time.   
  
3.8 NEW PRODUCTS/BUSINESS LINES/ACTIVITIES  
3.8.1 An institution should have a new product policy to ensure that the risks inherent in new business 
lines or activities are properly assessed. Proposals on new products, business lines or activities should be 
accompanied, where appropriate, by a product programme document that includes:   
  
(a) 
an analysis of legal and regulatory requirements and whether the activities are 
permissible;   
  
(b) 
a description of the relevant financial product and markets and the underlying 
objectives of the transactions (e.g. customer service, risk management or trading);   
  
(c) 
an analysis of the risks that may arise from these activities and details of any risk 
management procedures and systems established, including procedures for identifying, 
measuring, monitoring and controlling risks;   
  
(d) 
an evaluation of the impact of the proposed activities on the institution's overall 
financial condition and capital level, where applicable;   
  


 
 
17 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
(e) 
a description of the relevant accounting guidelines and tax treatment; and   
  
(f) 
a recommendation on the appropriate structure and staffing for trading and the key 
risk control functions.   
 
3.8.2 The new product policy should contain a definition of the term “new product”, and provide for the 
proper review and authorisation of variations to existing products. The policy may require such variations 
to be approved by the Board or appropriate level of management. The policy should be updated when 
market conditions warrant it, when major assumptions have changed, or when there are regulatory 
changes.   
  
3.8.3 As new products frequently require different pricing, processing, accounting and risk 
measurement systems, an institution should ensure that it has the necessary resources to support these 
activities. The new product approval process should include a sign-off by all relevant authorised personnel 
in areas such as risk control, operations, accounting, legal and compliance, and by senior management.   
 
3.8.4 Depending on the nature and complexity of a new product, a post-implementation review of the 
new product should also be conducted at an appropriate period after its introduction, accompanied by 
proper documentation of the issues raised. Such a review will enable all the parties concerned to discuss 
the issues encountered during implementation and to ensure that no risk remains unidentified.   
  
3.9 VALUATION OF ASSETS  
3.9.1 There should be clear policies and procedures for independent, fair and proper valuation of assets. 
Prices, interest rates, exchange rates and volatility factors used in the revaluation process for the financial 
accounting of treasury and financial derivatives transactions should be obtained from independent 
sources or be independently verified. They should not be decided by the institution’s dealers. If the 
institution uses live data feeds from vendors, it should exercise proper care and control to ensure the 
usefulness, quality and integrity of the data.   
  
3.9.2 An institution should have policies and controls to manage the risks arising from illiquid positions. 
These should address the methodologies used for valuing illiquid positions, identification and reporting 
of illiquid positions to the Board and senior management and audit frequency.   
  
3.9.3 The prices and valuation methodologies used should be documented for audit trail purposes. 
Periodic reports on the valuation of assets should be submitted to the Board and senior management for 
review.   
 


 
 
18 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.10  VERIFICATION AND RECONCILIATION  
3.10.1 An institution should have verification and reconciliation procedures for ascertaining the accuracy 
of transaction details and activities. Staff performing verification should be independent of those 
responsible for originating the transaction or preparing the data. For instance, reconciliation of front office 
and back office data should be performed by staff independent of the dealing function. Reconciliation 
should be performed regularly, even daily, for an institution active in dealing. The reconciliation should 
be reviewed to verify the institution’s exposures, profit and loss positions and transaction details. 
Discrepancies should be promptly investigated and rectified, with established procedures in place for 
reporting them to the Board and senior management. Examples of reconciliation to be performed include:   
  
(a) 
subsidiary ledgers to general ledger;   
  
(b) 
trade details against confirmations received from counterparties;   
  
(c) 
records to tangible assets and key documents;   
  
(d) 
securities holdings to custodian statements; and   
  
(e) 
nostro reconciliation.   
  
3.10.2 An institution should, as far as possible, require customers to indemnify it against losses for 
accepting instructions given verbally, via facsimile or via electronic mail. Where practicable, all telephone 
conversations relating to transaction-related instructions should be tape recorded.   
  
3.10.3 An institution should have policies to control the creation of accounts in the general and subsidiary 
ledgers to minimise the risk of fictitious accounts being set up. It should also ensure that all customer 
transactions are processed through the customers’ own accounts with the institution, and not through 
other accounts such as suspense or sundry accounts, without proper authorisation.   
  
3.10.4 Passing of entries through suspense and sundry accounts should be properly authorised and 
monitored to detect unusual transactions. In this regard, an institution should establish policies and 
procedures for areas such as the purpose of suspense accounts, controls over posting entries, length of 
time that an item has remained outstanding, frequency of reconciliation and follow-up actions required. 
It should also ensure that suspense items are cleared promptly. Reports on outstanding suspense items 
should also be periodically reviewed by senior management.   
  


 
 
19 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.11  CONFIRMATION  
3.11.1 An institution should have in place processes and procedures to ensure prompt confirmation of 
transactions to facilitate deal authentication and timely detection of transaction errors or unauthorised 
transactions.   
  
3.11.2 Customer orders should be promptly processed in accordance with instructions given and on the 
best available terms. An institution should have in place controls to ensure that trade matching and 
confirmations are performed as soon as possible after execution. This will facilitate early detection of 
errors in recording trades and unauthorised transactions, both of which could result in increased risks and 
costs.   
  
3.11.3 Where documented confirmations are required for trades done, an institution should send these 
to customers promptly. The institution is also encouraged to have a two-way confirmation process. 
Controls should be in place to prevent unauthorised amendments to the confirmation documents. Where 
possible, the confirmation process should be automated. Where there exists an automated process, 
manual preparation of confirmation documents should only be permitted on an exceptional basis.  All 
manual confirmation processes should be subject to stringent controls.   
  
3.11.4 Confirmation of trades with customers should be performed independently of the dealing 
function. Incoming confirmation slips should be received by a department that is independent of the 
dealing function, and disputes or unconfirmed trades immediately investigated. Where a customer is not 
an individual, outgoing confirmations should be sent to the appropriate group that is independent of 
trading. Interim updates or ad hoc statements requested by customers should also be checked and 
properly authorised before transmission to customers.   
  
3.11.5 Where an institution keeps statements and records of customers' holdings and transactions under 
safe custody or hold mail facility, it should have procedures for independent verification of customer 
activities. The institution should also ensure that only customers or authorised persons collect such 
statements and records. Proper acknowledgement and confirmation of receipt of these statements or 
records should be obtained.   
  
3.11.6 An institution should, as far as possible, discourage the practice of handing customer statements 
and records to staff holding front-line responsibilities, e.g. relationship managers, for onward 
transmission to customers. If this is not practicable, controls should be implemented to mitigate the risk 
of staff impropriety.   
 


 
 
20 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
3.12  SETTLEMENT  
3.12.1 An institution should establish standard settlement instructions in its systems. Changes to these 
instructions should be reviewed to ensure that they have been properly authorised by the customers or 
counterparties. Procedures should also be in place for validating funds transfer requests, which could 
include, among other things, telex testing, call-back and signature verification. Third party payments 
should be discouraged or, if allowed, be subject to more stringent controls.   
  
3.12.2 An institution should perform periodic reconciliation of funds transfer records to correspondent 
banks’ statements and ensure that any outstanding items are promptly investigated and reviewed. Non-
receipt or non-payment of funds should also be identified and rectified within a reasonable period of time.   
 
3.13  SECURITISATION  
3.13.1 
An institution should have appropriate systems, policies and procedures (including incentive 
alignment measures) in place to address risks arising from its involvement in securitisation3, where it 
acts as an investor or securitiser4 (i.e.  an originator5 or issuer). These policies, procedures and measures 
include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
(a) 
Assigning clear responsibility within the institution, for the management and monitoring 
of securitisations. The board and senior management of the institution should be aware 
of, and understand the effect of securitisation on its risk profile as well as the legal, 
accounting and potential reputational impact of this activity. Senior management is 
responsible for the participation of the institution in securitisations and should provide 
direction on the strategy of the institution, as well as its development of policies and 
procedures for managing, monitoring and controlling risks arising from securitisation 
activities; and  
 
3 The term “securitisation” means any transaction or scheme involving the tranching of risk associated with an exposure or a 
pool of exposures, and which has the following characteristics: (a) payments in the transaction or scheme depend on the 
performance of the exposure or pool of exposures; (b) the subordination of tranches determines the distribution of losses 
during the ongoing life of the transaction or scheme; and (c) junior tranches can absorb losses without interrupting contractual 
payments to more senior tranches. The term “tranche” means a contractually established segment of the risk associated with 
an underlying exposure or pool of exposures, where a position in the segment entails a risk of loss greater than, or less than a 
position of, the same amount in each other such segment, without taking account of credit protection provided by third parties 
directly to the holders of positions in the segment or in other segments.  
4 The term “securitiser” does not include a reinsurer licensed as a Special Purpose Reinsurance Vehicle, which has the meaning 
given by the Insurance (General Provisions and Exemptions for Special Purpose Reinsurance Vehicles) Regulations 2018.  
5 The term “originator” means: (a) an entity which, either itself or through related entities, directly or indirectly, creates the 
exposure being securitised; or (b) any entity which sponsors a securitisation, i.e. purchases or advises or causes a special 
purpose entity (SPE) to purchase the exposures of a third party, which are then used in a securitisation (for avoidance of doubt, 
selling credit protection such that the entity or the SPE has a long position in the credit risk of the obligor is equivalent to 
purchasing exposures). 


 
 
21 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
 
(b) 
Satisfying itself that it is not subject to reputational risk due to its role in a securitisation, 
and where appropriate, to disclose its obligations in order to mitigate that risk.  
 
3.13.2 Where an institution is an investor in a securitisation, the institution should conduct necessary 
due diligence, including: 
 
(a) 
Assessing its securitisation exposures, taking into account risks arising from the 
underlying exposures in determining its overall exposures to any particular obligor, 
industry or geographic area for the purpose of managing concentration risks; and 
 
(b) 
Prior to investing in the securitisation, satisfying itself that there is adequate incentive 
alignment between investors and the securitiser (i.e. originator or issuer) of the 
securitisation, taking into account the level of risk retention by the securitiser. 
 
3.13.3 Where an institution is a securitiser (i.e. originator or issuer) of a securitisation, the institution 
should disclose the information necessary for investors to make informed investment decisions, including 
information on the extent and manner of risk retention, and other incentive alignment measures.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
22 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Appendix  
CHECKLIST OF SOUND PRACTICES TO ADOPT  
[The checklist summarises the key practices only and is not meant to be exhaustive. For details, 
institutions should refer to the guidelines.]   
 
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
A 
Control Environment   
 
 
1 
Policies and Procedures  
 
Is there a set of comprehensive policies, approved by the Board for 
prudent management of significant risks arising from the institution’s 
activities and operations?   
  
Are there appropriate procedures and processes to implement the 
policies? Are the procedural manuals reviewed and updated 
regularly?       
 
 
2 
Code of Conduct   
  
Is there a comprehensive code of conduct for staff and is the code 
periodically reviewed in light of changes in the internal and external 
environment?   
 
 
3 
Delegation of Authority   
  
Are the responsibilities and levels of authority required in relation to 
various types of activities and exposures clearly defined?  
  
Are there adequate monitoring systems to ensure that activities are 
properly authorised and that departures from the approved limit 
structure are promptly reported to the Board and senior 
management?  
 
 
4 
Segregation of Duties   
  
Is there proper and adequate segregation of duties?   
  
Is the control function sufficiently independent from senior 
management and other functions? 
 


 
 
23 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
 
 
 
5 
Internal Audit   
  
Does the internal audit function:  
  
• have sufficient resources that are suitably trained and have 
relevant experience to understand and evaluate the business 
they are auditing?  
 
• have appropriate independence with reporting lines to the 
institution’s Board or to an audit committee of the Board, and 
has status within the institution to ensure that senior 
management reacts to and acts upon its recommendations?  
 
• have full access to and communication with any member of 
staff as well as full access to records, files or data of the 
institution and its affiliates, whenever relevant to the 
performance of its duties?  
 
• employ a methodology that identifies the material risks run by 
the institution?  
 
• prepare an audit plan, which is reviewed regularly, based on its 
own assessment and allocates its resources accordingly?  
 
• have the authority to access any outsourced function? 
  
• have the power to initiate a review of any area or any function 
consistent with its terms of reference?  
  
  
Are the internal auditors kept informed in a timely manner of any 
material change made to the institution’s risk management strategy, 
policies or processes?   
  
Are audit reports timely and distributed to the appropriate senior 
management? 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
24 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
6 
Compliance   
  
Is there a senior person or an appropriate unit appointed to oversee 
compliance issues?   
  
Are compliance shortcomings and violations addressed accordingly?  
  
Are compliance officers suitably trained, equipped with the relevant 
experience and vested with sufficient authority within the institution 
to perform their role effectively?   
  
Does the Board or its delegated authority exercise oversight of the 
management of the compliance function?  
  
Are compliance officers empowered to communicate directly with any 
personnel and have access to all information necessary to discharge 
their responsibilities?   
  
Does the compliance function have access to the Board? 
 
 
7 
Mandatory Leave   
  
Are there policies on mandatory leave for staff in risk-taking, risk 
management and risk control positions?   
 
 
8 
Handling of Complaints   
  
Are there adequate procedures for recording, investigating, 
monitoring and reporting complaints from customers?  
 
 
9 
Staff Compensation   
  
Are reward and compensation policies, especially for the risk 
management, control and senior management functions, sufficiently 
independent of the performance of trading activities or revenue 
targets?   
 
 
10 
Recruitment   
  
Is an adequate screening process in place for recruiting staff with the 
necessary experience and professional capabilities?   
 
 


 
 
25 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
11 
Staff Training and Education   
  
Are staff provided with adequate training and do they possess the 
necessary experience and expertise? 
 
 
B 
Business Process Controls   
 
 
1 
Dealing with Customers   
  
Are there policies on suitability and risk disclosure of products to 
customers?   
 
 
2 
Customer Due Diligence  
  
Are there sound customer due diligence policies and procedures?   
  
Are there appropriate controls for inactive and dormant accounts, 
opening and closure of accounts? 
 
 
3 
Legal Documentation   
  
Have the Board and senior management instituted policies and 
proper and adequate controls to ensure that transaction 
documentation is properly executed, confirmed, maintained and 
safeguarded?  
 
 
4 
Accounting and Record Keeping   
  
Are there adequate controls over the accounting and record-keeping 
process?   
  
Are the staffs responsible for accounting and recordkeeping functions 
independent of front-office activities?  
 
 
5 
Management Information Systems   
  
Is an adequate management information system in place for effective 
management and control of all aspects of operations, including 
monitoring of compliance with internal controls and regulatory 
 


 
 
26 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
requirements, and providing reasonable assurance that these are 
being complied with?   
   
Have the Board and senior management ensured that systems 
support and operational capacity are adequate to accommodate the 
different types of activities the institution engages in?   
  
Are risk exposures independently and regularly reported to the Board 
and senior management?  Is there a process to promptly inform the 
Board and senior management of unanticipated changes, 
progressively deteriorating positions or other significant positions 
arising from the institution’s positions, even when limits are not 
exceeded?   
 
6 
Physical Controls   
  
Is access to sensitive areas such as the dealing room, computer room 
and funds transfer area strictly granted on a need-to basis?   
  
Are items such as test keys, master IDs for SWIFT, cash and securities 
subjected to dual control and their access restricted to authorised 
personnel and recorded for proper accountability?   
 
 
7 
Off-Premises and After Hours Trading   
  
Are adequate controls in place for off-premises and after hours 
trading?   
 
 
8 
New Products/ Business Lines/ Activities   
  
Is there a new product policy to ensure that risks inherent in new 
business lines or activities are properly assessed?   
 
Is there a process for the proper review and authorisation of 
variations to existing products?  
 
 
Are the parameters used to govern products kept updated?  
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
27 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
9 
Valuation of Assets   
  
Are prices, interest rates, exchange rates and volatility factors used in 
revaluation obtained from independent sources or independently 
verified?   
  
Are compensating policies and controls in place for managing the risks 
arising from illiquid positions?   
 
 
10 
Verification and Reconciliation  
  
Are verification and reconciliation processes for ascertaining the 
accuracy of transaction details and activities adequate?   
 
 
11 
Confirmation   
  
Is confirmation of trades with customers performed independently of 
the dealing function and as soon as possible after trade execution?   
  
Are enhanced verification procedures established and applied to 
those statements and records of customers’ holdings and 
transactions held under safe custody or hold mail facility?   
 
 
12 
Settlement   
  
Are there procedures for validating funds transfer requests? 
 
Is periodic reconciliation of funds transfer records to correspondent 
banks’ statements performed and are outstanding items promptly 
investigated and reviewed? 
 
 
 
 
13 
Securitisation 
 
Are there appropriate systems, policies and procedures (including 
incentive alignment measures) in place to address risks arising from 
the institution’s involvement in securitisation where it acts as an 
investor or securitiser (i.e. originator or issuer)?  
 
 


 
 
28 
 
Guidelines on Risk Management Practices – Internal Controls  
Ref 
Sound Practice 
Yes/No 
Are the board and senior management of the institution aware of, 
and understand the effect of securitisation on the institution’s risk 
profile as well as the legal, accounting and potential reputational 
impact of this activity? Is the senior management responsible for the 
participation of the institution in securitisations, and do the senior 
management provide direction on the strategy of the institution, as 
well as its development of policies and procedures for managing, 
monitoring and controlling risks arising from securitisation activities? 
 
Before investing in a securitisation, has the institution conducted the 
necessary due diligence taking into account risks from the underlying 
exposures, and whether the institution is satisfied that there is 
adequate incentive alignment between the institution (as an investor) 
and the securitiser (i.e. originator or issuer) of the securitisation, 
taking into account the level of risk retention by the securitiser? 
 
Where an institution is acting as a securitiser (i.e. originator or issuer) 
of a securitisation, has it disclosed the necessary information 
(including the extent and manner of risk retention and other incentive 
alignment measures) to investors necessary for them to make 
informed investment decisions?  
 
 
 
 
