 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDELINES ON THE APPLICATION OF 
BANKING REGULATIONS 
TO ISLAMIC BANKING 
 
 
 
 
16 May 2024 


 
 
MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
i 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
i 
 
 
 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
1 
2 MAS’ APPROACH TO ISLAMIC BANKING 
2 
(I) ADMISSION OF ISLAMIC BANKS 
2 
(II) SINGLE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 
2 
(III) SINGLE CAPITAL FRAMEWORK 
3 
3 REGULATORY TREATMENT OF ISLAMIC BANKING 
5 
(I) FUNDING STRUCTURES 
5 
(II) FINANCING STRUCTURES AND INVESTMENTS 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
1 
 
 
 
  
 
1 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 These guidelines aim to provide banks with guidance on the regulation of Islamic 
banking in Singapore. They cover MAS’ general approach to the regulation of Islamic 
banking, providing guidance on the admission framework for financial institutions 
intending to offer Islamic financial services and the regulatory treatment for Islamic 
banking products, including the capital treatment of such products. These guidelines 
only cover the application of the Banking Act 1970, Banking Regulations and 
written directions issued pursuant to the Banking Act 1970, and do not cover the 
application of other legislation, such as the Securities and Futures Act 2001 and 
Financial Advisers Act 2001. 
 
1.2 MAS’ Banking Regulations clarifying the treatment of Islamic banking products are 
set out in regulations 4A, 22, 23, 23A, 23B, 23C, 23D and 23E. These regulations are 
applicable to a bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970. MAS Notice 637 sets out 
the minimum capital adequacy ratios for all banks incorporated in Singapore, and the 
rules that they are required to apply in calculating those ratios. The capital requirements 
in MAS Notice 637 will apply to Islamic financial products on the same basis as 
conventional banking products. 
 
1.3 These guidelines seek to clarify MAS’ policy on Islamic banking by explaining the 
regulatory treatment of specific Islamic structures. Nothing in these guidelines modify 
or detract from the requirements set out in the Banking Act 1970, Banking Regulations, 
and written directions issued pursuant to the Banking Act 1970. The types and 
descriptions of Islamic financial structures set out in these guidelines are not intended to 
be exhaustive, nor do they prescribe a uniform structure for all products named in the 
guidelines. We have set out descriptions in these guidelines to explain more precisely 
how the Banking Regulations would apply to specific structures. However financial 
institutions should seek their own legal advice when structuring the transactions and 
applying the Banking Regulations. 
 
1.4 MAS will continue to refine the regulatory framework as new Islamic structures 
evolve, and these guidelines will be reviewed on a periodic basis to ensure their 
relevance.  
 
 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
2 
 
 
 
  
2 
MAS’ APPROACH TO ISLAMIC BANKING 
 
2.1 MAS’ regulatory approach is focused on addressing the risks to the soundness of a 
financial institution. While Islamic finance has specific features, such as the varying 
degrees of retention of asset and business risks in Islamic transactions, an Islamic bank 
is generally exposed to the same types of risks as a conventional bank. Such risks 
include credit risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, among others. These risks are not 
dissimilar to those faced by a conventional bank, and many of the prudential and 
supervisory issues are similar to those for a conventional bank. Thus, MAS has adopted 
the same regulatory approach towards Islamic and conventional banks. 
 
 
I 
ADMISSION OF ISLAMIC BANKS 
 
2.2 MAS applies the same set of admission criteria when considering an application by 
a conventional bank and an Islamic bank to operate in Singapore. MAS’ primary 
concern, when admitting new players, is the safety and soundness of the new institution. 
While the unique features of Islamic banking may alter the source and extent of risks1, 
MAS does not expect the risk profile of an Islamic bank to be fundamentally different 
from its conventional banking counterparts. Fundamentally, MAS expects all banks, 
Islamic or conventional, to remain focused on their core banking business. A sound 
Islamic bank shares the same hallmarks of a sound conventional bank, all of which are 
evaluated under the admission criteria publicly available on the MAS website. 
 
2.3 A conventional bank with existing operations in Singapore which wishes to conduct 
Islamic banking business in Singapore should keep MAS duly informed if any such 
plans are being made and notify MAS before commencing Islamic banking activities. 
Every bank should also ensure that they are well-managed and possess the necessary 
risk management capabilities to offer Islamic banking services. 
 
 
II         SINGLE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 
 
2.4 MAS’ regulatory framework for banks applies to both conventional and Islamic 
banking, including conventional banks offering Islamic banking services and products. 
The regulatory framework addresses risks to a bank’s soundness – e.g. risk to solvency, 
liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk – which both Islamic and conventional banks 
are exposed to. 
 
2.5 As part of the single regulatory framework, a bank carrying out Islamic banking 
activities will be required to comply with the same set of rules and regulations as any 
 
1 For example, while the need to comply with Shariah laws introduces an additional dimension to an 
Islamic bank’s reputational risk exposure, the nature of the risk is not different from a conventional 
bank’s need to protect its reputation by ensuring that its performance matches up to its representations 
to its customers. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
3 
 
 
 
  
other bank in Singapore, namely the Banking Act 1970, Banking Regulations, Notices 
and Directives. These rules will include the need to maintain eligible assets (MAS 
Notice 640), maintain sufficient liquidity buffers (MAS Notice 649), keep ample 
provisions (MAS Notice 612), observe large exposure limits (MAS Notice 656), limit 
property- related exposures (section 33 of Banking Act 1970), put in place strict anti-
money laundering controls (MAS Notice 626) and comply with minimum regulatory 
capital requirements (MAS Notice 637). Every bank should also observe any general 
principles laid out in guidelines closely (e.g. Guidelines on Risk Management 
Practices). 
 
2.6 MAS’ approach is to look through the form of the Islamic products to assess the 
economic substance and risks involved, and use that assessment as the basis for 
regulation. Where Islamic products are similar to conventional products in economic 
substance and risks, we accord both the same regulatory treatment. More detailed 
explanation of the application of these regulations will be set out in Section 3: 
Regulatory Treatment of Islamic Banking. 
 
2.7 The main risk that Islamic banks face which is unique to them is Shariah compliance 
risk. In addition to managing the risks faced by conventional banks, such as credit, 
market, operational risks, an Islamic bank also has to ensure that it is in compliance with 
Shariah rulings as this carries significant reputational risk to the bank. As a prudential 
regulator, MAS does not prescribe what constitutes Shariah compliance nor endorse 
specific Shariah rulings. Nevertheless, MAS expects Islamic banks to take into account 
Shariah compliance matters and to manage this compliance risk as part of their overall 
risk management process2. Nothing in these guidelines should be construed as 
expressing an opinion on Shariah acceptability. 
 
 
III       SINGLE CAPITAL FRAMEWORK 
 
2.8 MAS Notice 637 sets out the minimum capital adequacy ratios for all banks 
incorporated in Singapore, and the rules that they are required to apply in calculating 
those ratios. The capital requirements in MAS Notice 637 will apply to Islamic financial 
products on the same basis as they apply to other banking products. The examples used 
in these guidelines are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be definitive 
 
2 This could include putting in place policies on Shariah compliance, resolution processes for disputes 
relating to rulings, internal Shariah review processes, etc. For further examples of some of these 
practices, banks may wish to refer to IFSB’s “Guiding Principles on Corporate Governance For 
Institutions Offering Only Islamic Financial Services (Excluding Islamic Insurance (Takaful) 
Institutions and Islamic Mutual Funds)”. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
4 
 
 
 
  
or exhaustive2A. The actual application of the requirements in MAS Notice 637 will 
vary depending on the circumstances of each case. A bank incorporated in Singapore is 
responsible for making its own assessment of the risks associated with each product and 
the capital rules that are applicable. 
 
2.9 As a starting point, a bank incorporated in Singapore has to assess whether the 
exposure on its books arising from the financial product is to be allocated to its trading 
book or banking book3. This will determine whether Part VII (Credit risk) or Part VIII 
(Market risk) of MAS Notice 637 is applicable to the financial product4. 
 
2.10 In a structure where the amount and date of the full principal repayment is 
contractually agreed upon and determined at the outset, a bank incorporated in 
Singapore is primarily exposed to the risk that the counterparty will not be able to 
honour its contractual obligation to repay on the agreed future date (i.e. it is a credit 
exposure). The bank should, in general, apply the SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part VII 
of MAS Notice 637 to such an exposure. The bank should use the risk weight that is 
associated with the relevant asset class listed in paragraph 7.3.1 of MAS Notice 637. 
For on-balance sheet exposures, the bank should determine the appropriate exposure, 
E, or where applicable, E*, in accordance with Accounting Standards5. For off-balance 
sheet exposures, the bank should determine the appropriate exposure, E, by multiplying 
the notional amount of each exposure with the appropriate credit conversion factor, or 
CCF6. 
 
2.11 Further guidance on the capital treatment of common Islamic products will be 
provided in Section 3: Regulatory Treatment of Islamic Banking. 
 
 
2A These Guidelines assume the use of the standardised approaches in respect of Islamic financial products 
currently. These Guidelines also assume that the exposures in the illustrations that follow do not fall 
within the definition of CCR exposures held in the banking book, CCR exposures held in the trading 
book, equity investments in funds held in the banking book, securitisation exposures, exposures to CCPs 
arising from CCR exposures in the banking book, exposures to CCPs arising from CCR exposures in 
the trading book, exposures to CCPs arising from default fund exposures, UST exposures held in the 
banking book, and UST exposures held in the trading book. The terms CCR exposure, CCP and UST 
exposure have the same meanings as in Annex 2A of MAS Notice 637. 
3 This assessment should be made in accordance with the definitions of the banking book and trading book 
in MAS Notice 637 (see Part II and Sub-division 5 of Division 1 of Part VIII). 
4 For CCR exposures (that is, any pre-settlement counterparty exposure arising from OTC derivative 
transactions, exchange-traded derivative transactions, long settlement transactions and SFTs), 
provisions in both Parts VII and VIII may be applicable. These Guidelines assume that the exposures in 
the illustrations that follow do not fall within the definition of a CCR exposure. 
5 See paragraph 7.2.6 of MAS Notice 637. 
6 See paragraph 7.2.11 of MAS Notice 637. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
5 
 
 
 
  
3 
REGULATORY 
TREATMENT 
OF 
ISLAMIC 
BANKING 
 
I 
FUNDING STRUCTURES 
 
3.1 Islamic banks commonly fund their activities through the acceptance of noninterest bearing 
deposits, such as wadiah and qard hassan deposits. Banks in Singapore are allowed to offer 
such non-interest bearing deposits as these deposits satisfy the legal definition of a “deposit” 
set out in the Banking Act 1970. 
 
3.2 In addition to collecting non-interest bearing deposits, Islamic banks also make use of the 
mudaraba (profit-sharing) structure to collect funds in the form of Profit Sharing Investment 
Accounts (“PSIAs”). There is an element of risk sharing in PSIAs, and account-holders 
contractually agree to bear the losses on the assets which they fund. As the principal sums 
placed by account-holders with the bank in these PSIAs are not guaranteed at maturity, we 
do not consider these accounts to be “deposits”. Banks are allowed to offer such products as 
investment products, and should not be marketing them as “deposits”. 
 
3.3 A third common structure for deposits is the murabaha deposit. MAS issued 
regulations 23 and 4A of the Banking Regulations to allow banks to offer such deposits. 
 
Murabaha Deposit 
 
 Regulation 23 and Regulation 4A of the Banking Regulations (“regulation 23 and 
 regulation 4A” r espectiv ely)  
 
 
3.4 In a typical murabaha deposit transaction (Figure A7), the customer pays a bank a sum of 
money, and appoints the bank as an agent to purchase assets with the paid sum of money. The 
customer then sells the assets back to the bank at a price which is higher than the bank’s original 
purchase price, and receives the bank’s payment on a deferred basis. The mark-up in price 
is the profit made by the customer. The bank, after purchasing the assets from the customer, 
sells the assets to an external party. 
 
3.5 In such transactions, as a result of the mark-up sale, the customer has a contractual claim 
on the bank for the amount of money he earlier paid to the bank plus the mark- up. The payoffs 
and risks in making a murabaha deposit are similar to that of a deposit placed in the 
conventional banking system. In recognition of the similarity in economic substance and risks 
between a murabaha deposit and a conventional deposit, banks are allowed to collect murabaha 
deposits under regulation 23, and regulation 4A was issued to augment the definition of 
deposits in the Banking Act 1970 to include monies paid in the form of murabaha deposits. 
 
3.6 For regulation 23 and regulation 4A to apply, the bank has to ensure that (1) the customer 
undertakes to sell the assets which the bank has purchased on his behalf, and the bank then 
 
7 All diagrams in these guidelines are for illustrative purposes only. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
6 
 
 
 
  
on-sells the assets; (2) both parties do not derive gains or suffer losses from fluctuations in 
the price of the assets; (3) the mark-up charged by the customer does not depend on the 
market value of the asset; and (4) the payment by the bank to the customer is on a deferred 
basis. The bank is to notify MAS whenever it intends to accept murabaha deposits. Throughout 
the transaction, the bank is expected to minimise the holding period of the assets so as to avoid 
being exposed to the price movements of the assets. Incidental risks arising from operational 
and legal arrangements are acceptable, insofar as such arrangements are made with best effort 
to minimise risks in the first place. 
 
 
REGULATION 23 
 
 
 
 
Prescribed purchase and sale business 
23.—(1) For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (2), the 
business of purchasing and selling assets is prescribed as a business that any bank in 
Singapore may carry on, or enter into any partnership, joint venture or other arrangement 
with any person to carry on, if such business is carried on under the following 
arrangement: 
(a) for the purpose of making funds of a customer available to a bank, the customer 
appoints the bank or any other person as agent, to purchase on his behalf, an asset, 
in circumstances where the asset is existing at the time of the purchase; 
(b) an amount of money (the original price) is paid by the customer to the bank or such 
other person referred to in sub-paragraph (a), as the case may be, for the purchase 
of the asset; 
(c) the bank purchases the asset from the customer at a price (the marked -up price) that 
is greater than the original price, and sells the asset; 
(d) the bank and customer, respectively, do not derive any gain or suffer any loss from 
any movement in the market value of the asset other than the difference between 
the marked- up price and the original price (which represents the profit or return to 
the customer for making funds available to the bank); and 
(e) the marked-up price or any part thereof is not required to be paid by the bank to the 
customer until after the date of sale of the asset by the bank. 
(2) The bank shall notify the Authority of its –- 
(a) intention to commence the business referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such business within 14 days after the commencement of such 
business. 
 
 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
7 
 
 
 
  
 
REGULATION 4A 
 
 
 
 
 
Prescribed deposit 
4A.  For the purposes of section 4B(4)(b) of the Act, a sum of money paid by a person 
(A) to another person (B) or any other person as an agent of A is prescribed as a deposit made 
by A with B, if it is paid for the purpose of making funds of A available to B and under the 
following arrangement: 
(a) the payment is made to enable B or the agent to purchase an asset on behalf of A, 
being an asset that exists at the time of the purchase; 
(b) B purchases the asset from A at a price (the marked-up price) that is greater than the 
sum of money paid by A, and sells the asset; 
(c) A  and  B,  respectively,  do  not  derive  any  gain  or  suffer  any  loss  from  any 
movement in the market value of the asset other than the difference between the 
marked-up price and the sum of money paid by A (which represents the return to A for 
making funds available to B); and 
(d) no part of the marked-up price is required to be paid by B to A until after the date of 
sale of the asset by B. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
8 
 
 
 
  
Figure A:  Structure of a murabaha deposit 
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
9 
 
 
 
  
 
II         FINANCING STRUCTURES AND INVESTMENTS 
 
3.7 On the asset side, an Islamic bank invests in sukuk and equity-based investments. There 
are also a number of common Islamic structures which banks use to provide financing. 
These typically involve a bank trading in and holding tangible assets, such as commodities 
and immovable property, or sharing risks with their customers through the use of partnerships 
or equity participation. There is generally extensive use of risk mitigation which lower or 
limit the risks of asset ownership to the bank and have the effect of leaving the Islamic bank 
primarily exposed to the credit risk of the customer being financed. We have issued 
regulations on commonly used Islamic financing structures to provide greater clarity on the 
regulatory treatment of such structures. The capital requirements in MAS Notice 637 will also 
apply to Islamic financial assets held by a bank incorporated in Singapore on the same basis 
as they apply to other banking products. 
 
 
Murabaha Financing 
 
 Regulation 22 of the Banking Regulations (“regul ation 22”)  
 
3.8 Regulation 22 allows banks to enter into murabaha-based (mark-up) financing 
arrangements (Figure B). In such a transaction, a bank generally purchases the asset to be 
financed, and then sells it to the customer at a markup, to be paid on a deferred basis. 
 
3.9 For a murabaha financing transaction to fall within regulation 22, the markup must 
represent the profit to the bank for providing financing, and the bank’s profit should not be 
dependent on the market value of the asset. We also expect the bank to ensure that it takes on 
little additional risk from its ownership of the asset, such as by minimising the time between 
the purchase and sale of the asset, and ensuring that the customer is under a legal obligation 
to take delivery of the asset. The main risk the bank should be exposed to is the credit risk of 
the customer, although it may also be exposed to some legal and operational risks. The 
payment by the customer can be either in a lump sum, or in instalments. The bank can also 
choose to take security over the underlying asset in a murabaha to enforce the repayment of 
the amount owed. 
 
Capital Treatment 
 
3.10 Where a structure falls within the definition of a murabaha financing structure as 
stipulated above, the bank should treat the amount $(P+X) as a credit exposure and apply 
the SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637 (refer to Figure B). 
 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
10 
 
 
 
  
REGULATION 22 
 
 
 
 
 
Prescribed alternative financing business 
22.—(1) For the purposes of section 30 (1) (d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph 
(2), the Authority hereby prescribes the business of purchasing and selling assets as 
a business that any bank in Singapore may carry on, or enter into any partnership, 
joint venture or other arrangement with any person to carry on, if such business is 
carried on under the following arrangement: 
(a) the bank, at the request of and for the purpose of financing the purchase of 
each of those assets by a customer, purchases the asset from the seller in 
circumstances where the asset is existing at the time of the purchase; 
(b) the bank sells the asset to the customer; 
(c) the customer is under a legal obligation to the bank to take delivery of the asset; 
(d) the amount payable by the customer for the asset (the marked-up price) is 
greater than the amount paid by the bank for the asset (the original price), 
and the difference between the marked-up price and original price is the 
profit or return to the bank for providing such financing to the customer; 
(e) the bank does not derive any gain or suffer any loss from any movement in 
the market value of the asset other than as part of the profit or return referred 
to in sub-paragraph (d); and 
(f) the marked-up price or any part thereof is not required to be paid until after 
the date of the sale. 
(2) The bank shall notify the Authority of its — 
(a) intention to commence the business referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such business within 14 days after the 
commencement of such business. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure B:  Structure of a murabaha financing contract 
 
Spot purchase by bank  
Spot sale by bank on 
deferred payment terms 
 
 
 
 
Payment of purchase price 
(P) 
Payment of mark- 
up price (P+X) 
  
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
11 
 
 
 
  
Murabaha Interbank Placements 
 
 Regulation 23A of the Banking Regulations (“reg ulation 23A”)  
 
3.11 Regulation 23A expands the scope for murabaha transactions by allowing murabaha 
interbank placements, which are important liquidity instruments for Islamic banks. (Figure C) 
 
3.12 A murabaha interbank placement closely follows the structure of murabaha deposit 
permitted under regulation 23. The key difference lies in the parties involved – instead of a 
non-bank customer, a bank is the party placing the funds. Bank A appoints Bank B as an agent 
to purchase assets on its behalf, and places a sum of money with Bank B to fund the purchase. 
Upon receiving the assets, Bank A sells the assets to Bank B at a marked-up price – original 
purchase price plus a margin. Bank B buys the assets, pays Bank A on a deferred basis, and 
sells the assets to an external party. This structure allows Bank A to place a sum of money with 
Bank B, similar to the murabaha deposit. 
 
3.13 The qualifying conditions for regulation 23A are: (1) both banks are obliged to 
complete their respective purchase or sale transactions; (2) both banks do not derive any gains 
or suffer any losses from changes in price of the assets; and (3) the mark-up charged by 
Bank A is set independently from the price of the asset and represents its only gain in the 
transaction. Banks can be in the role of either Bank A or Bank B, and should inform MAS 
whenever they decide to conduct such transactions. 
 
3.14 There are other possible variations to this structure. For example, Bank B, after being 
appointed as an agent for Bank A, could appoint its own agent to buy and sell the assets. 
Another possibility is for Bank B to deal with a single external party when purchasing and 
selling assets. In general, these variations do not alter the underlying economic substance of 
the transaction and are thus accepted within regulation 23A. 
 
Capital Treatment 
 
3.15 Where a structure falls within the definition of a murabaha interbank financing 
structure as stipulated above, the bank should treat the amount $(P+X) as a credit exposure 
and apply the SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637 (refer to Figure C). 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
12 
 
 
 
  
REGULATION 23A 
 
 
 
Prescribed inter-bank purchase and sale business 
23A.—(1) For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (3), the 
business of purchasing and selling assets is prescribed as a business that any bank in 
Singapore may carry on, or enter into any partnership, joint venture or other arrangement 
with any person to carry on, if such business is carried on under the following 
arrangement: 
(a) for the purpose of making funds of the bank (“A”) available to another bank or 
merchant bank (“B”), A purchases, or appoints B or any other person as an agent of A 
to purchase on its behalf, an asset for an amount of money (the original price), in 
circumstances where the asset is existing at the time of the purchase; 
(b) B purchases the asset from A at a price (the marked-up price) that is greater than the 
original price, and sells the asset, or appoints A, or any other person as an agent of 
B, to sell the asset on its behalf; 
(c) A and B, respectively, do not derive any gain or suffer any loss from any 
movement in the market value of the asset other than the difference between the 
marked-up price and the original price (which represents the profit or return to A for 
making funds available to B); and 
(d) the marked-up price or any part thereof is not required to be paid by B to A until after 
the date of sale of the asset by B. 
(2) 
For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (3), the 
arrangement set out in paragraph (1), in circumstances where the roles of A and B are 
reversed, is prescribed as a business that any bank in Singapore may carry on or enter into 
any partnership, joint venture or other arrangement with any person to carry on. 
(3) 
The bank shall notify the Authority of its — 
(a) intention to commence the business referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such business within 14 days after the commencement of 
such business. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
13 
 
 
 
   
Figure C: Structure of a murabaha interbank 
placement 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
14 
 
 
 
  
Ijara wa igtina 
 
Regulation 23B of the Banking Regulations (“regu lation 23B”)  
 
3.16 Regulation 23B clarifies the regulatory treatment of ijara wa igtina transactions (Figure 
D). An ijara wa igtina financing typically involves a bank purchasing an asset at the request 
of the customer, and then leasing the asset to the customer. The lease will generally end either 
by the bank transferring the ownership of the asset to the customer at the end of the lease term, 
or by the customer terminating the lease early and purchasing the asset from the bank at a price 
agreed upfront. 
 
3.17 For an ijara wa igtina financing to fall within regulation 23B, while the bank has 
ownership of the asset for the duration of the lease, the customer or a third party  must be 
appointed as a service agent to take on the obligations in connection with the use of the asset, 
including but not restricted to the maintenance and insurance of the asset.  The bank has to pass 
on the ownership of the asset by the end of the lease. We also expect banks to ensure that they 
are protected against losses from movements in the market value in the asset, including the 
total loss of the asset, such as through ensuring that there is adequate insurance. The profits 
that the banks make should be a return for providing financing, and be independent of the 
market value of the asset. Such financing structures are similar to finance leases in terms of 
risks. 
 
3.18 Regulation 23B also allows for variations on the typical ijara wa igtina financing 
structure, such as when a third party purchases the asset from the bank instead of the 
customer, or a third party is appointed as the service agent to take on the obligations in 
connection with the use of the asset. 
 
Capital Treatment 
 
3.19 Where a structure falls within the definition of an ijara wa iqtina financing structure 
as stipulated above, the bank should calculate an exposure to the customer equivalent to the 
discounted stream of lease payments by applying the SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part VII of 
MAS Notice 637. 
 
REGULATION 23B 
 
 
 
Prescribed leasing business 
23B.–(1) For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (2), the 
business of  leasing  assets  (whether  in  the  form  of  movable  or  immovable  property)  
is  prescribed  as  a business that any bank in Singapore may carry on, or enter into any 
partnership, joint venture or other arrangement with any person to carry on, if such 
business is carried on under the following arrangement: 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
15 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
(a) the bank, or the bank’s agent, purchases an asset at the request of a customer for an 
amount of money (the original price) for the purposes of financing the use or 
purchase, or both, of the asset by the customer; 
(b) the bank, or the bank’s agent, leases the asset to the customer; 
(c) in a case where the asset is not in existence at the time the bank, or the bank’s agent, 
leases the asset to the customer, an amount of money (the advance payment) 
may be paid by the customer to the bank, or the bank’s agent, for the subsequent use 
of the asset; 
(d) an amount of money (the rental) is paid by the customer to the bank, or the bank’s agent, 
for the lease of the asset; 
(e) the bank, or the bank’s agent, appoints the customer, or a third party, to take on the 
obligations in connection with the use of the asset, including its maintenance and 
insurance; 
(f) in the event of an early termination of the lease, the customer, or a third party, shall 
purchase the asset from the bank, or the bank’s agent, at a price determined at the start 
of the lease (the early termination price); 
(g) upon expiry of the lease — 
(i) where the aggregate of all rental and advance payments made under the lease is 
greater than the original price, the bank, or the bank’s agent, shall, whether with 
or without consideration, transfer the ownership of the asset to the customer 
or a third party; 
(ii) where the aggregate of all rental and advance payments made under the lease is 
equal to or less than the original price, the customer or a third party shall purchase 
the asset from the bank, or the bank’s agent, at a sale price determined at 
the start of the lease (the sale price), which amount shall be consideration for the 
transfer of the asset; 
(h) the total amount payable by the customer and such third party referred to in either sub-
paragraph (f) or (g), if any, for the asset comprising — (i) the advance payment; 
(ii) the rental; and 
(iii) 
the sale price or early termination price, 
is greater than the original price, and the difference between the total amount payable 
and original price is the profit or return to the bank for providing such financing to 
the customer; 
(i) the bank, or the bank’s agent, does not derive any gain or suffer any loss from any 
movement in the market value of the asset, including total loss of the asset, other than 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
16 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure D:  Structure of a typical ijara wa igtina contract 
 
 
Lease of asset; 
 
Title passes at the end of the 
 
Transfer of title  lease term, or during the lease term if the lessee pays off the 
 
remaining lease payments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diminishing Musharaka 
 
 Regulation 23C of the Banking Regulations (“regu lation 23C”)  
 
3.20 A diminishing musharaka transaction (“DM”) is a joint ownership arrangement where a 
bank gradually sells its portion of the jointly owned asset to the customer, allowing its 
share of the asset to “diminish” over time. (Figure E) DM transactions are commonly 
combined with leasing arrangements, where the bank leases its share of the asset to the 
customer, thus allowing the customer to use the asset entirely while redeeming ownership. The 
asset can be in the form of property, vehicles, machinery or commodities. 
 
3.21 Regulation 23C permits the conduct of DM transactions, provided certain conditions are 
met. The sum of payments (i.e. rent and instalment) made by the customer to the bank must 
exceed the bank’s original contribution, with the excess representing a return to the bank for 
providing financing. This return must be agreed to by the bank and the customer at the start of 
as part of the profit or return referred to in subparagraph (h). 
(2) The bank shall notify the Authority of its — 
(a) intention to commence the business referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such business within 14 days after the commencement of such 
business. 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
17 
 
 
 
  
the transaction. The bank is also required to appoint the customer or a third party as service 
agent to take on the obligations in connection with the use of the asset, including but not 
restricted to the maintenance and insurance of the asset. The bank should not be exposed to 
fluctuations in the market value of the asset, except in the event of a default by the customer. 
In such a case, the bank may structure the loan as a non-recourse mortgage and suffer a loss 
if in the sale of the asset as collateral, the proceeds are insufficient to cover the amount due 
from the customer. Finally, the co-owned asset must ultimately be wholly owned by the 
customer. 
 
Capital Treatment 
 
3.22 Where a structure falls within the definition of a diminishing musharaka financing 
structure as stipulated above, the bank should apply the SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part 
VII of MAS Notice 637. For example, in the case of a diminishing musharaka where the 
asset is a residential property, the bank should apply the risk weights under the residential 
mortgage asset class8 of SA(CR). For other types of tangible assets, the bank should apply a 
100% risk weight under the other exposures asset class9 of SA(CR). The amount that 
should be risk-weighted, E10, will be the outstanding redemption amount due to the bank at 
the relevant time. 
 
 
 
8 See paragraph 7.3.17 of MAS Notice 637 for criteria applicable to the residential mortgage asset class. 
9 See paragraph 7.3.1(l) of MAS Notice 637 for the scope of the other exposures asset class.  
10 See Division 2 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637 for the rules relating to the calculation of E. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
18 
 
 
 
  
 
REGULATION 23C 
 
Prescribed joint purchase and periodic sale business 
 
23C.⎯(1) For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (2), the 
business of jointly purchasing and selling (on a periodic basis) assets (whether in the form 
of movable or immovable property) is prescribed as a business that any bank in Singapore 
may carry on, or enter into any partnership, joint venture or other arrangement with any 
person, if such business is carried on under the following arrangement: 
(a) the bank, or the bank’s agent, jointly purchases an asset with the customer at the 
request of the customer and contributes an amount of money towards the purchase 
price (the contribution) for the purposes of financing the use or purchase, or both, of 
the asset by the customer; 
(b) the bank, or the bank’s agent — 
(i) sells a portion of its share of the asset on a periodic basis to the customer for 
an amount of money determined at the start of the arrangement (the 
redemption); and 
(ii) leases the unsold portion of its share of the asset to the customer for an 
amount of money determined at the start of the arrangement (the rental); 
(c) in a case where the asset is not in existence at the time of the joint purchase and the 
bank, or the bank’s agent, leases the unsold portion of its share of the asset to the 
customer, an amount of money (the advance payment) may be paid by the customer 
to the bank, or the bank’s agent, for the subsequent use of that portion of the asset; 
(d) the bank, or the bank’s agent, appoints the customer, or a third party, to take on the 
obligations in connection with the use of the asset, including its maintenance and 
insurance; 
(e) in the event of an early termination of the arrangement, the customer shall 
purchase from the bank, or the bank’s agent, the remainder of the unsold portion of 
the bank’s, or the bank’s agent’s, share of the asset at a price determined at the start 
of the arrangement (the early termination price); 
(f) upon expiry of the arrangement, the customer shall have purchased from the bank, 
or the bank’s agent, the whole of its share of the asset and obtained full ownership 
of the asset; 
(g) the total amount payable by the customer for the asset comprising — 
(i) the advance payment; 
(ii) the redemption; 
(iii)the rental; and 
(iv)the early termination price; 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure E:  Structure of a typical diminishing musharaka contract 
 
 
Spot Murabaha 
 
Regulation 23D of the Banking Regulations (“reg ulation 23D”)  
 
3.23 Spot murabaha transactions involve the purchase of assets at a marked-up price, similar 
to the other forms of murabaha transactions set out above, with one key difference – the 
purchase price is paid immediately (hence “spot”) and not on a deferred basis. Spot murabaha 
transactions are used together with unilateral undertakings from either a bank or its 
counterparty, to effect immediate payments as part of financial transactions. (Figure F) 
 
 
is greater than the  contribution, and the difference between the total amount 
payable and the contribution is the profit or return to the bank for providing such 
financing to the customer; 
(h) the bank, or the bank’s agent, does not derive any gain or suffer any loss from 
any movement in the market value of the asset, including total loss of the asset, 
other than as part of the profit or return referred to in subparagraph (g), except 
in circumstances provided in subparagraph (i); 
(i) in a case where the customer is unable to pay the bank, or the bank’s agent, the 
early termination price, the bank, or the bank’s agent may sell the asset to a third 
party at a price lower than the outstanding amount payable by the customer. 
(2) The bank shall notify the Authority of its — 
(a) intention to commence the arrangement referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such arrangement within 14 days after the commencement of 
such arrangement. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
20 
 
 
 
  
These financial transactions include hedging instruments (e.g. profit rate swap) and 
investment-based transactions where the ultimate payout is linked to an external rate (e.g. 
performance of an index). The unilateral undertakings will be used to fix the formula for the 
ultimate payout, which are then executed through a spot murabaha transaction. 
 
3.24 For a spot murabaha transaction to be permitted under regulation 23D, the payout to be 
effected must be pursuant to a financial transaction, as defined in the Banking Act 1970. These 
are the activities set out in sections 30(1)(a),(b) and (c) of the Banking Act 1970. A bank has 
to avoid taking on nonfinancial risks. This necessarily means that the bank is not allowed to 
take physical delivery of the underlying assets, and will not derive any gains or suffer losses 
other than the mark-up in the price of the asset, agreed between the bank and its customer 
at the start of the transaction, or calculated based on a pre- agreed formula. 
 
Capital Treatment 
 
3.25 Where a structure falls within the definition of a spot murabaha financing structure as 
stipulated above, the bank should apply SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part VII of MAS Notice 
637. The amount that should be risk weighted, E, will be based on the relevant rules set out 
in Division 2 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637. 
 
REGULATION 23D 
 
 
 
 
Prescribed purchase and sale business at spot price 
23D.—(1)   For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (2), 
the business of purchasing and selling assets at spot price is prescribed as a business that 
any bank in Singapore may carry on, or enter into any partnership, joint venture or other 
arrangement with any person to carry on, if such business is carried on under the following 
arrangement: 
(a) for  the  purpose  of  effecting  payment  resulting  from  the  carrying  on  of  any 
business by the bank under section 30(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the Act — 
(i) the  bank  undertakes  to  purchase  an  asset  from  a  customer  (bank  purchase 
undertaking); 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
21 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
(ii) the customer undertakes to purchase an asset from the bank (customer purchase 
undertaking); 
(iii)the bank undertakes to sell an asset to a customer (bank sale undertaking); or 
(iv)the customer undertakes to sell an asset to the bank (customer sale 
undertaking), 
for an amount of money determined at the time of the giving of the undertaking by 
the bank or the customer, as the case may be (the agreed price); 
(a) where the bank purchase undertaking is exercised by the customer, or the 
customer sale undertaking is exercised by the bank, the bank purchases the asset 
from the customer at the agreed price, in circumstances where the asset is 
existing at the time of the purchase, and immediately sells the asset to a third 
party at spot price; 
(b) where the customer purchase undertaking is exercised by the bank, or the bank 
sale undertaking is exercised by the customer, the bank will purchase the asset 
from a third party at spot price in circumstances where the asset is existing at the 
time of the purchase, and immediately sells the asset to the customer at the agreed 
price; 
(c) the bank does not take physical delivery of the asset; 
(d) the bank does not derive any gain or suffer any loss from any movement in the 
market value of the asset other than the difference between the spot price and the 
agreed price. 
(2) The bank shall notify the Authority of its — 
(a) intention to commence the business referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such business within 14 days after the commencement of 
such business. 
 
 
 
 
Figure F:  Structure of a spot murabaha transaction 
 
   
Unilateral undertaking   
to Purchase  
  
Purchase at spot (P)   
 
 
 Sale at P+X      
 
 
   
   
   


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
22 
 
 
 
  
Istisna 
 
 Regulation 23E of the Ba nking Regulations (“regu lation 23E”)  
 
3.26 An istisna contract is a sale contract of an asset which is to be manufactured or 
constructed according to the purchaser’s specification. The purchaser agrees to the terms of 
delivery and specifications, issues an order and makes progress payments for the construction 
of the asset. The manufacturer constructs the assets according to the specifications and delivers 
the completed asset within a certain timeframe. This is largely used for the financing of assets 
under construction, including project finance. 
 
3.27 Regulation 23E sets out the conditions which must be met for a bank to enter into an 
istisna contract for the financing of assets under construction. To fall within regulation 23E, 
at the customer’s request, the bank will commission the customer to construct an asset. 
Concurrent with the commissioning of the construction of the asset, the bank must arrange for 
the transfer of the ownership of the asset, upon its completion, to the customer. Such an 
arrangement can either be in the form of an ijara contract or an undertaking provided by the 
customer to commit to the purchase of the asset from the bank. Where an ijara contract is 
used, the contract must meet the requirements set out in regulation 23B where the asset is not 
in existence at the time the asset is leased. 
 
3.28 The customer will appoint a third party to construct the asset. Neither the bank nor the 
customer should be involved in the construction or manufacture of the asset. The bank will 
make progress payments to the customer for the construction of the asset, and the asset will be 
transferred on a mutually agreed date to the bank when the construction is completed. In the 
event that the completed asset is not transferred to the bank as agreed, the customer must 
either refund all progress payments made by the bank, or substitute a comparable asset, 
subject to the bank’s agreement. Where the customer refunds the progress payments made 
by the bank, the lease arrangement or purchase undertaking will be cancelled. Where a 
comparable asset is substituted, the comparable asset will replace the original asset in the 
lease arrangement or purchase undertaking from the customer. The bank should ensure that it 
is able to enforce the repayment of all progress payments from the customer in the event that 
no asset is transferred to the bank. 
 
3.29 At the end of the arrangement, except where the customer has refunded all progress 
payments to the bank and no asset has been transferred to the bank, the ownership of the 
completed asset or comparable asset must be transferred to the customer. The amount which 
the customer pays the bank for the completed asset or comparable asset must be higher than 
the sum total of the progress payments made by the bank for the construction of the asset, 
with the excess representing a return to the bank for providing financing. This return must be 
independent of the market value of the asset. 
 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
23 
 
 
 
  
Capital Treatment 
 
3.30 Where a structure falls within the definition of an istisna financing structure as 
stipulated above, the bank should apply the SA(CR) under Division 3 of Part VII of MAS 
Notice 637. For example, in the case of a istisna where the bank’s customer is a corporate, 
the bank should apply the relevant risk weights under the Corporate asset class11 of 
SA(CR). The amount that should be risk weighted, E12, will be based on the relevant rules 
set out in Division 2 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637. 
 
 
REGULATION 23E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prescribed procurement business 
23E.—(1) For the purposes of section 30(1)(d) of the Act, and subject to paragraph (2), the 
business of procuring and selling assets (whether in the form of movable or immovable 
property) is prescribed as a business that any bank in Singapore may carry on, or enter into 
any partnership, joint venture or other arrangement with any person to carry on, if such 
business is carried on under the following arrangement: 
(a) the bank, or the bank’s agent, at the request of the customer and for the purposes of 
financing the procurement and the use or purchase, or both, of an asset by the 
customer, commissions the customer to construct the asset in accordance with the 
customer’s specifications for an amount of money (the purchase price); 
(b) contemporaneously with the commissioning referred to in subparagraph (a) — 
(i) the bank, or the bank’s agent, and the customer enter into an arrangement 
prescribed under regulation 23B where the asset is not in existence at the time 
the asset is leased to the customer (the lease arrangement); or 
(ii) the customer gives an undertaking to the bank, or the bank’s agent, to 
purchase the asset from the bank, or the bank’s agent, immediately after the 
transfer of the ownership of the asset to the bank, or the bank’s agent, by the 
customer under sub-paragraph (e)(i) (the purchase undertaking); 
(c) the customer procures the construction of the asset by a third party; 
(d) the bank, or the bank’s agent, makes payment of the purchase price to the 
customer on a periodic basis (the progress payment); (e) one of the following takes 
place: 
(i) the customer transfers the ownership of the asset to the bank, or 
 
 
 
11 See paragraph 7.3.1(g) of MAS Notice 637 for criteria applicable to the corporate asset class. 
12 See Division 2 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637 for the rules relating to the calculation of E. 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
24 
 
 
 
  
 
the bank’s agent, on a mutually agreed date on or after the completion of the 
construction of the asset by the third party; 
(ii) the customer refunds all progress payments to the bank, or the bank’s agent, and 
the lease arrangement or the purchase undertaking, as the case may be, is 
cancelled; or 
(iii)the bank, or the bank’s agent, agrees to the substitution of the asset that    is the 
subject of the lease arrangement or the purchase undertaking with a comparable 
asset, and the customer transfers the ownership of the comparable asset to the 
bank, or the bank’s agent, on a mutually agreed date; 
(f) the bank, or the bank’s agent, does not take physical delivery of the asset or the 
comparable asset; 
(g) at the end of the arrangement, the bank, or the bank’s agent, transfers ownership of 
the asset, or of the comparable asset, to the customer pursuant to the lease 
arrangement or the purchase undertaking, except in the circumstances referred to in 
sub-paragraph (e)(ii); 
(h) the amount payable by the customer for the asset, or the comparable asset, is 
greater than the purchase price, and the difference between the total amount 
payable and the purchase price is the profit or return to the bank for providing such 
financing to the customer; 
(i) the bank, or the bank’s agent, does not derive any gain or suffer any loss from any 
movement in the market value of the asset, including from the total loss of the asset, 
other than the profit or return referred to in subparagraph (h). 
(2) The bank shall notify the Authority of its — 
(a) intention to commence the business referred to in paragraph (1); or 
(b) commencement of such business within 14 days after the commencement of 
such business. 
 
 
 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
25 
 
 
 
  
Figure G:  Structure of an istisna transaction 
 
 
 
 
 
Sukuk 
 
3.31 A bank’s investments in sukuk and equity-based investments are subject to the general 
exposure and investment limits set out in the Banking Act 1970, Banking Regulations and 
written directions issued pursuant to the Banking Act 1970. These include, among others, 
section 31 (Limit on equity investments) and section 32 (Major stake in entity) of the Banking 
Act 1970. 
 
Capital Treatment 
 
3.32 Sukuk are arranged using a range of structures, but they generally fall into two broad 
categories – 
(1) 
Asset-based sukuk, where there is a purchase undertaking by the 
originator to repurchase the underlying assets; and 
(2) 
Asset-backed sukuk where the holders would bear any losses in case 
of the impairment of the assets. 
 
Asset-based sukuk 
 
3.33 The bank should maintain capital for sukuk by applying the SA(CR) under Division 


MONETARY AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE 
26 
 
 
 
  
3 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637.13 
 
3.34 In determining whether the sukuk falls within the definition of an equity exposure as 
defined in paragraph 7.3.9 of MAS Notice 637, the bank should assess the economic substance 
of the risks associated with the sukuk. If the tenor and full principal repayment to the sukuk 
holder are fixed at the time of the sukuk issuance, and the purchase undertaking is irrevocable 
and enforceable, the holder of the sukuk is primarily exposed to the risk that the counterparty 
issuing the purchase undertaking will not be able to honour its obligation to repay on the agreed 
future date. An example of this is an asset based sukuk in which the full repayment of the 
principal rests upon an undertaking by the originator to purchase the assets upon maturity of 
the sukuk. Such a sukuk should not fall within the definition of an equity exposure as defined 
in paragraph 7.3.9 of MAS Notice 637. The risk weights that should be applied under SA(CR) 
will depend on the asset class and credit quality grade of the entity that provides the 
purchase undertaking.14 MAS expects a bank that plans to apply this approach to satisfy itself 
that claims against the party providing the purchase undertaking are legally enforceable and 
that it will be able to obtain repayment of the principal from the proceeds of such claims. 
 
3.35 In the case of sukuk in which the tenor and full repayment of the principal are not fixed 
at the time of issuance, or in which the purchase undertaking is not irrevocable and enforceable, 
the bank should treat its investment in the sukuk as an equity exposure as defined in paragraph 
7.3.9 of MAS Notice 637. Likewise, the bank should treat equity-based sukuk where there is 
no purchase undertaking as an equity exposure as defined in paragraph 7.3.9 of MAS Notice 
637. 
 
Asset-backed sukuk 
 
3.36 The bank should maintain capital for asset-backed sukuk by applying the SA(CR) under 
Division 3 or the SA(EQ) Division 5 of Part VII of MAS Notice 637, as the case may be. In 
determining whether the sukuk falls within the definition of an equity exposure as defined in 
paragraph 7.3.9 of MAS Notice 637, the bank should assess the economic substance of the 
risks associated with the underlying assets in the sukuk. 
 
 
 
 
13 The rules under SA(MR) in Part VIII of MAS Notice 637 should apply to sukuk that are held by a bank in its 
trading book. These Guidelines do not deal with the issue of whether the sukuk satisfy the Shariah criteria for 
being tradeable, as this is unrelated to the capital treatment. 
14 For example, if the purchase undertaking was short-term in nature and issued by a corporate entity, and the short-
term issue-specific rating falls within credit quality grade I, the bank should apply a risk weight of 20% (see 
paragraph 7.3.68 of MAS Notice 637). 
