 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Authority of Singapore 
GUIDELINES ON 
OUTSOURCING 
27 July 2016 
[Last revised on 5 October 2018  
(with effect from 8 October 2018)] 
  


 
Table of Contents 
 
 
1 
INTRODUCTION .............................................................................................................. 1 
2 
APPLICATION OF GUIDELINES .............................................................................. 1 
3 
DEFINITIONS ...................................................................................................... 3 
4 
ENGAGEMENT WITH MAS ON OUTSOURCING ....................................................... 8 
4.1 Observance of the Guidelines .................................................................................................... 8 
4.2 Notification of Adverse Developments ...................................................................................... 9 
5 
RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES ........................................................................... 9 
5.1 Overview .................................................................................................................................... 9 
5.2 Responsibility of the Board and Senior Management ............................................................... 9 
5.3 Evaluation of Risks ................................................................................................................... 11 
5.4 Assessment of Service Providers .............................................................................................. 12 
5.5 Outsourcing Agreement ........................................................................................................... 14 
5.6 Confidentiality and Security ..................................................................................................... 17 
5.7 Business Continuity Management ........................................................................................... 18 
5.8 Monitoring and Control of Outsourcing Arrangements........................................................... 19 
5.9 Audit and Inspection ................................................................................................................ 21 
5.10 Outsourcing Outside Singapore ............................................................................................... 23 
5.11 Outsourcing Within a Group .................................................................................................... 24 
5.12 Outsourcing of Internal Audit to External Auditors ................................................................. 24 
6 
CLOUD COMPUTING .......................................................................................... 25 
Annex 1 
 ......................................................................................................... 27 
Annex 2 
 ......................................................................................................... 29 
Annex 3 
 ......................................................................................................... 31 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
1 
1 
INTRODUCTION  
 
1.1 
While outsourcing arrangements can bring cost and other benefits, it may increase 
the risk profile of an institution due to, for example, reputation, compliance and operational 
risks arising from failure of a service provider in providing the service, breaches in security, or 
the institution’s inability to comply with legal and regulatory requirements. An institution can 
also be exposed to country risk when a service provider is located overseas and concentration 
risk when more than one function is outsourced to the same service provider. Outsourcing 
does not diminish the obligations of an institution, and those of its board and senior 
management to comply with relevant laws and regulations in Singapore, it is thus important 
that an institution adopts a sound and responsive risk management framework for its 
outsourcing arrangements. 
 
1.2 
These Guidelines1 on Outsourcing (“Guidelines”) set out the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore’s (“MAS”) expectations of an institution that has entered into any outsourcing 
arrangement or is planning to outsource its business activities2 to a service provider. An 
institution should conduct a self-assessment of all existing outsourcing arrangements against 
these Guidelines3.  
2 
APPLICATION OF GUIDELINES 
 
2.1 
These Guidelines provide guidance on sound practices on risk management of 
outsourcing arrangements. The Guidelines do not affect, and should not be regarded as a 
statement of the standard of care owed by institutions to their customers. The extent 
and degree to which an institution implements the Guidelines should be commensurate with 
the nature of risks in, and materiality of, the outsourcing arrangement. An institution should 
ensure that outsourced services (whether provided by a service provider or its sub-contractor) 
continue to be managed as if the services were still managed by the institution. In supervising 
an institution, MAS will review the implementation of these Guidelines by an institution to 
assess the quality of its board and senior management oversight and governance, internal 
controls and risk management. MAS is particularly interested in material outsourcing 
arrangements. 
                                                          
1 Please refer to MAS’ website (www.mas.gov.sg) for details of the classification of instruments issued by MAS. 
2 Any reference in these Guidelines to “business activities” of an institution is to be construed as a reference to 
the business and operational functions and processes of the institution. 
3 This includes institutions which are bound by outsourcing arrangements as a result of an acquisition of the 
business of another institution. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
2 
2.2 
Annex 1 provides a non-exhaustive list of examples of outsourcing arrangements to 
which these Guidelines are applicable, and arrangements that are not intended to be subject 
to these Guidelines. It should also not be misconstrued that arrangements not defined as 
outsourcing need not be subject to adequate risk management and sound internal controls. 
Annex 2 provides guidance to an institution in assessing whether an arrangement would be 
considered a material outsourcing arrangement. Annex 3 provides a template for an 
institution to maintain a register of its outsourcing arrangements which is to be submitted to 
MAS, at least annually or upon request.  
 
2.3 
An institution incorporated in Singapore should also consider the impact of 
outsourcing arrangements by its branches and any corporation under its control, including 
those located outside Singapore, on its consolidated operations. Institutions incorporated in 
Singapore should ensure that these Guidelines are observed by branches and corporations 
under their control by applying a group-wide outsourcing risk management framework that 
complies with the Guidelines.  
 
2.4 
The practices articulated in these Guidelines are not intended to be exhaustive or 
override any legislative provisions. They should be read in conjunction with the provisions of 
the relevant legislation, the subsidiary legislation made under the relevant legislation, as well 
as written directions, notices, codes and other guidelines that MAS may issue from time to 
time pursuant to the relevant legislation and subsidiary legislation. 
 
 
 
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
3 
3 
DEFINITIONS 
 
3.1 
In these Guidelines on Outsourcing, unless the context otherwise requires:  
 
“benchmark administrator” means a benchmark administrator authorised under 
section 123F of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) (“SFA”) or a benchmark 
administrator exempt under section 123K of the SFA; 
 
“board” or “board of directors” means –  
(a) 
in the case of an institution incorporated in Singapore, the board of 
directors; and  
(b) 
in the case of an institution incorporated or established outside Singapore, 
a management committee or body beyond local management charged with 
oversight and supervision responsibilities for the institution in Singapore;  
 
“bridge-institution” means an institution, whether incorporated in Singapore or 
outside Singapore, to temporarily take over and maintain certain assets, liabilities 
and operations of a distressed financial institution, as part of a resolution 
Authority’s exercise of a resolution power;  
 
“business relations” –  
(a) 
in relation to an insurer, means  
(i) 
the issuance of a policy or reinsurance cover by the insurer to; or  
(ii) 
the provision of financial advice by the insurer to, 
a person (whether a natural person, legal person or legal arrangement); 
(b) 
in relation to a bank, means  
(i) 
the opening or maintenance of an account by the bank in the name of; 
or 
(ii) 
the provision of financial advice by the bank to, 
a person (whether a natural person, legal person or legal arrangement); 
(c) 
in relation to a CMI, means 
(i) 
the opening or maintenance of an account by the CMI in the name of; 
(ii) 
the provision of financial advice by the CMI to; or 
(iii) the provision of fund management services by the CMI to, 
a person (whether a natural person, legal person or legal arrangement); 
(d) 
in relation to a financial adviser, means 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
4 
(i) 
the opening or maintenance of an account by the financial adviser in 
the name of; or 
(ii) 
the provision of financial advice by the financial adviser to, 
a person (whether a natural person, legal person or legal arrangement); 
(e) 
in relation to a credit card or charge card licensee licensed under section 
57B of the Banking Act (Cap. 19), means the opening or maintenance of an 
account by the credit card or charge card licensee in the name of a person 
(whether a natural person, legal person or legal arrangement); 
(f) 
 in relation to a benchmark administrator, means 
(i) 
the collection of information from a person (whether a natural person, 
legal person or legal arrangement) by the benchmark administrator 
for the purpose of administering a designated benchmark under the 
SFA; or 
(ii) 
the provision of a designated benchmark by the benchmark 
administrator to, a person (whether a natural person, legal person or 
legal arrangement);  
 
“CMI” means a person holding a capital markets services licence under the SFA, a 
fund management company registered under paragraph 5(1)(i) of the Second 
Schedule to the Securities and Futures (Licensing and Conduct of Business) 
Regulations (“SF(LCB)R”) or a person exempted from the requirement to hold 
such a licence under paragraph 7(1)(b) of the Second Schedule to the SF(LCB)R;  
 
“customer” means –  
(a) 
in relation to any trustee for a collective investment scheme authorised 
under section 286 of the SFA, that is approved under that Act, the managers 
and participants of the collective investment scheme;  
(b) 
in relation to an approved exchange, recognised market operator, licensed 
trade repository, licensed foreign trade repository, approved clearing house, 
recognised clearing house, and central depository system under the SFA, a 
person who may participate in one or more of the services provided by such 
entities;  
(c) 
in relation to a licensed trust company under the Trust Companies Act (Cap. 
336), a trust for which the trust company provides trust business services 
and includes the settlor and any beneficiary under the trust; 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
5 
(d) 
in relation to a bank, means a person (whether a natural person, legal 
person or legal arrangement) −  
(i) 
with whom the bank establishes or intends to establish business 
relations; or  
(ii) 
for whom the bank undertakes or intends to undertake any 
transaction without an account being opened; 
(e) 
in relation to an insurer, means a person (whether a natural person, legal 
person or legal arrangement) with whom the insurer establishes or intends 
to establish business relations, including, in the case of a group policy, the 
owner of the master policy issued or intended to be issued; 
(f) 
in relation to an insurance intermediary, means a person (whether a natural 
person, legal person or a legal arrangement) with whom the insurance 
intermediary arranges or intends to arrange for such persons, contracts of 
insurance in Singapore with one or more insurers; 
(g) 
in relation to a financial adviser, means a person (whether a natural person, 
legal person or a legal arrangement) with whom the financial adviser 
establishes or intends to establish business relations and includes in the 
case where the financial adviser arranges a group life insurance policy, the 
owner of the master policy; 
(h)  in relation to a CMI, means a person (whether a natural person, legal person 
or a legal arrangement) –  
(i) 
with whom the CMI establishes or intends to establish business 
relations; 
(ii) 
for whom the CMI undertakes or intends to undertake any transaction 
without an account being opened; or 
(iii) who invests into an investment vehicle to which the CMI provides the 
regulated activities of fund management and real estate investment 
trust management; 
(i) 
in relation to a credit card or charge card licensee licensed under section 
57B of the Banking Act (Cap. 19), means a person (whether a natural person, 
legal person or legal arrangement) with whom the credit card or charge card 
licensee establishes or intends to establish business relations; 
(j) 
in relation to money-changers and remittance businesses, means a person 
(whether a natural, legal person or legal arrangement) – 
(i) 
with whom the licensee establishes or intends to establish an account 
relationship; or  


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
6 
(ii) 
for whom the licensee undertakes or intends to undertake a relevant 
business transaction without an account being opened, including in 
the case of an inward remittance transaction, the person to whom the 
licensee pays out funds in cash or cash equivalent in Singapore and 
the person on behalf of whom such funds are paid out in Singapore;  
(k) 
in relation to a benchmark administrator, means a person (whether a 
natural, legal person or legal arrangement) – 
(i) 
who provides information to the benchmark administrator in relation 
to a designated benchmark; or 
(ii) 
with whom the benchmark administrator establishes or intends to 
establish business relations; 
 
“customer information” means – 
(a) 
in relation to an approved exchange, recognised market operator, approved 
clearing house and recognised clearing house, “user information” as defined 
in section 2 of the SFA; 
(b) 
in relation to a licensed trade repository and licensed foreign trade 
repository, “user information” and “transaction information” as defined in 
section 2 of the SFA; or 
(c) 
in the case of any other institution, information that relates to its customers 
and these include customers’ accounts, particulars, transaction details and 
dealings with the financial institutions, but does not include any information 
that is public, anonymised, or encrypted in a secure manner such that the 
identities of the customers cannot be readily inferred;  
 
“financial adviser” means a licensed financial adviser under the FAA or a person 
exempt, under section 23(1)(f) of the FAA read with regulation 27(1)(d) of the FAR, 
from holding a financial adviser’s licence to act as a financial adviser in Singapore 
in respect of any financial advisory service;  
 
“institution” means any financial institution as defined in section 27A of the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 186); 
 
“material outsourcing arrangement” means an outsourcing arrangement –  
(a) 
which, in the event of a service failure or security breach, has the potential 
to either materially impact an institution’s–  


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
7 
(i) 
business operations, reputation or profitability; or 
(ii) 
ability to manage risk and comply with applicable laws and regulations, 
or 
(b) 
which involves customer information and, in the event of any unauthorised 
access or disclosure, loss or theft of customer information, may have a 
material impact on an institution’s customers; 
 
“legal arrangement” means a trust or other similar arrangement;  
 
“legal person” means an entity other than a natural person that can establish a 
permanent customer relationship with a financial institution or otherwise own 
property; 
 
“outsourcing agreement” means a written agreement setting out the contractual 
terms and conditions governing relationships, obligations, responsibilities, rights and 
expectations of the contracting parties in an outsourcing arrangement; 
 
“outsourcing arrangement” means an arrangement in which a service provider 
provides the institution with a service that may currently or potentially be performed 
by the institution itself and which includes the following characteristics –  
(a) 
the institution is dependent on the service on an ongoing basis; and 
(b) 
the service is integral to the provision of a financial service by the institution 
or the service is provided to the market by the service provider in the name 
of the institution; 
 
“relevant business transaction” –  
(a) 
in relation to a holder of a money-changer’s licence means –  
(i) 
a money-changing transaction of an aggregate value not less than 
S$5,000; or 
(ii) 
an inward remittance transaction from another country or jurisdiction 
to Singapore; or 
(b) 
in relation to a holder of a remittance license means, a remittance 
transaction whether from Singapore to another country or jurisdiction or 
from another country or jurisdiction to Singapore;  
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
8 
“service provider” means any party which provides a service to the institution, 
including any entity within the institution’s group 4, whether it is located in 
Singapore or elsewhere;  
 
“sub-contracting” means an arrangement where a service provider which has an 
outsourcing arrangement with an institution, further outsources the services or 
part of the services covered under the outsourcing arrangement to another 
service provider. 
4 
ENGAGEMENT WITH MAS ON OUTSOURCING  
4.1 
Observance of the Guidelines 
 
4.1.1 
An institution should be ready to demonstrate to MAS its observance of these 
Guidelines. This should include submission of its outsourcing register in the template set out 
in Annex 3 at least annually or upon request.  
 
4.1.2 
Where MAS is not satisfied with the institution’s observance of the Guidelines, MAS 
may require the institution to take additional measures to address the deficiencies noted. 
MAS may also take such non-compliance into account in its assessment of the institution, 
depending on the potential impact of the outsourcing on the institution and the financial 
system, severity of the deficiencies noted, the institution’s track record in internal controls 
and risk management, and also on the circumstances of the case. MAS may directly 
communicate with the home or host regulators of the institution and the institution’s service 
provider, on their ability and willingness to cooperate with MAS in supervising the outsourcing 
risks to the institution.  
 
4.1.3 
MAS may require an institution to modify, make alternative arrangements or re-
integrate an outsourced service into the institution where one of the following circumstances 
arises: 
(a) 
An institution fails or is unable to demonstrate a satisfactory level of 
understanding of the nature and extent of risk arising from the outsourcing 
arrangement; 
                                                          
4 This refers to the institution’s Head Office or parent institution, subsidiaries, affiliates, and any entity (including 
their subsidiaries, affiliates and special purpose entities) that the institution exerts control over or that exerts 
control over the institution. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
9 
(b) 
An institution fails or is unable to implement adequate measures to address 
the risks arising from its outsourcing arrangements in a satisfactory and 
timely manner;  
(c) 
Adverse developments arise from the outsourcing arrangement that could 
impact an institution;  
(d) 
MAS’ supervisory powers over the institution and ability to carry out MAS’ 
supervisory functions in respect of the institution’s services are hindered; or 
(e) 
The security and confidentiality of the institution’s customer information is 
lowered due to changes in the control environment of the service provider.  
4.2 
Notification of Adverse Developments 
 
4.2.1 
An institution should notify MAS as soon as possible of any adverse development 
arising from its outsourcing arrangements that could impact the institution. Such adverse 
developments include any event that could potentially lead to prolonged service failure or 
disruption in the outsourcing arrangement, or any breach of security and confidentiality of 
the institution’s customer information. An institution should also notify MAS of such adverse 
development encountered within the institution’s group. 
5 
RISK MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
5.1 
Overview 
 
5.1.1 
In supervising an institution, MAS will review its implementation of these Guidelines, 
the quality of its board and senior management oversight and governance, internal controls 
and risk management with regard to managing outsourcing risks. 
5.2 
Responsibility of the Board and Senior Management 
 
5.2.1 
The board and senior management of an institution play pivotal roles in ensuring a 
sound risk management culture and environment. While an institution may delegate day-to-
day operational duties to the service provider, the responsibilities for maintaining effective 
oversight and governance of outsourcing arrangements, managing outsourcing risks, and 
implementing an adequate outsourcing risk management framework, in accordance with 
these Guidelines, continue to rest with the institution, its board and senior management. The 
board and senior management of an institution should ensure there are adequate processes 
to provide a comprehensive institution-wide view of the institution’s risk exposures from 
outsourcing, and incorporate the assessment and mitigation of such risks into the institution’s 
outsourcing risk management framework.  


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
10
 
5.2.2 
The board, or a committee delegated by it, is responsible for:  
(a) 
approving a framework to evaluate the risks and materiality of all existing 
and prospective outsourcing arrangements and the policies that apply to 
such arrangements;  
(b) 
setting a suitable risk appetite to define the nature and extent of risks that 
the institution is willing and able to assume from its outsourcing 
arrangements; 
(c) 
laying down appropriate approval authorities for outsourcing arrangements 
consistent with its established strategy and risk appetite;  
(d) 
assessing management competencies for developing sound and responsive 
outsourcing risk management policies and procedures that are 
commensurate with the nature, scope and complexity of the outsourcing 
arrangements;  
(e) 
ensuring that senior management establishes appropriate governance 
structures and processes for sound and prudent risk management, such as 
a management body that reviews controls for consistency and alignment 
with a comprehensive institution-wide view of risk; and 
(f) 
undertaking regular reviews of these outsourcing strategies and 
arrangements for their continued relevance, and safety and soundness. 
 
5.2.3 
Senior management is responsible for: 
(a) 
evaluating the materiality and risks from all existing and prospective 
outsourcing arrangements, based on the framework approved by the board;  
(b) 
developing sound and prudent outsourcing policies and procedures that are 
commensurate with the nature, scope and complexity of the outsourcing 
arrangements as well as ensuring that such policies and procedures are 
implemented effectively; 
(c) 
reviewing regularly the effectiveness of, and appropriately adjusting, 
policies, standards and procedures to reflect changes in the institution’s 
overall risk profile and risk environment; 
(d) 
monitoring and maintaining effective control of all risks from its material 
outsourcing arrangements on an institution-wide basis; 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
11
(e) 
ensuring that contingency plans, based on realistic and probable disruptive 
scenarios, are in place and tested;  
(f) 
ensuring that there is independent review and audit for compliance with 
outsourcing policies and procedures; 
(g) 
ensuring that appropriate and timely remedial actions are taken to address 
audit findings; and 
(h) 
communicating information pertaining to risks arising from its material 
outsourcing arrangements to the board in a timely manner.  
 
5.2.4 
Where the board delegates its responsibility to a committee as described in 
paragraph 5.2.2, the board should establish communication procedures between the board 
and the committee. This should include requiring the committee to report to the board on a 
regular basis, and ensuring that senior management is held responsible for implementation 
of the guidelines as elaborated in paragraphs 5.2.3 (a) to 5.2.3 (h). Notwithstanding the 
delegation of responsibility to a committee, the board shall remain responsible for the 
performance of its responsibilities by that committee.  
 
5.2.5 
For an institution incorporated or established outside Singapore, the functions of the 
board described in paragraph 5.2.2 may be delegated to and performed by a management 
committee or body beyond local management that is charged to functionally oversee and 
supervise the local office (e.g., a regional risk management committee). The functions of senior 
management in paragraph 5.2.3 lie with local management. Local management of an institution 
incorporated or established outside Singapore should continue to take necessary steps to enable 
it to discharge its obligations to comply with the relevant laws and regulations in Singapore, 
including expectations under these Guidelines. Local management cannot abrogate its 
governance responsibilities to run the institution in a prudent and professional manner.  
5.3 
Evaluation of Risks  
 
5.3.1 
In order to be satisfied that an outsourcing arrangement does not result in the risk 
management, internal control, business conduct or reputation of an institution being 
compromised or weakened, the board and senior management would need to be fully aware 
of and understand the risks arising from outsourcing. The institution should establish a 
framework for risk evaluation which should include the following steps:  
(a) 
identifying the role of outsourcing in the overall business strategy and 
objectives of the institution; 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
12
(b) 
performing comprehensive due diligence on the nature, scope and 
complexity of the outsourcing arrangement to identify and mitigate key 
risks;  
(c) 
assessing5 the service provider’s ability to employ a high standard of care in 
performing the outsourced service and meet regulatory standards as 
expected of the institution, as if the outsourcing arrangement is performed 
by the institution;  
(d) 
analysing the impact of the outsourcing arrangement on the overall risk 
profile of the institution, and whether there are adequate internal expertise 
and resources to mitigate the risks identified;  
(e) 
analysing the institution’s as well as the institution’s group aggregate 
exposure to the outsourcing arrangement, to manage concentration risk; 
and 
(f) 
analysing the benefits of outsourcing against the risks that may arise, 
ranging from the impact of temporary disruption to service to that of a 
breach in security and confidentiality, and unexpected termination in the 
outsourcing arrangement, and whether for strategic and internal control 
reasons, the institution should not enter into the outsourcing arrangement.  
 
5.3.2 
Such risk evaluations should be performed when an institution is planning to enter 
into an outsourcing arrangement with an existing or a new service provider, and also re-
performed periodically on existing outsourcing arrangements, as part of the approval, 
strategic planning, risk management or internal control reviews of the outsourcing 
arrangements of the institution.  
5.4 
Assessment of Service Providers  
 
5.4.1 
In considering, renegotiating or renewing an outsourcing arrangement, an institution 
should subject the service provider to appropriate due diligence processes to assess the risks 
associated with the outsourcing arrangements.  
 
5.4.2 
An institution should assess all relevant aspects of the service provider, including its 
capability to employ a high standard of care in the performance of the outsourcing 
arrangement as if the service is performed by the institution to meet its obligations as a 
regulated entity. The due diligence should also take into account the physical and IT security 
                                                          
5 Please see paragraph 5.4 on assessment of service providers. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
13
controls the service provider has in place, the business reputation and financial strength of 
the service provider, including the ethical and professional standards held by the service 
provider, and its ability to meet obligations under the outsourcing arrangement. Onsite visits 
to the service provider, and where possible, independent reviews and market feedback on 
the service provider, should also be obtained to supplement the institution’s assessment. 
Onsite visits should be conducted by persons who possess the requisite knowledge and skills 
to conduct the assessment.  
 
5.4.3 
The due diligence should involve an evaluation of all relevant information about the 
service provider. Information to be evaluated includes the service provider’s:  
(a) 
experience and capability to implement and support the outsourcing 
arrangement over the contracted period;  
(b) 
financial strength and resources (the due diligence should be similar to a 
credit assessment of the viability of the service provider based on reviews 
of business strategy and goals, audited financial statements, the strength of 
commitment of major equity sponsors and ability to service commitments 
even under adverse conditions);  
(c) 
corporate governance, business reputation and culture, compliance, and 
pending or potential litigation;  
(d) 
security and internal controls, audit coverage, reporting and monitoring 
environment; 
(e) 
risk management framework and capabilities, including technology risk 
management 6  and business continuity management 7  in respect of the 
outsourcing arrangement; 
(f) 
disaster recovery arrangements and disaster recovery track record;  
(g) 
reliance on and success in dealing with sub-contractors;  
(h) 
insurance coverage;  
(i) 
external environment (such as the political, economic, social and legal 
environment of the jurisdiction in which the service provider operates); and 
                                                          
6 Standards should be commensurate with that expected of the institution as set out in MAS’ Technology Risk 
Management Guidelines. 
7 Standards should be commensurate with that expected of the institution as set out in MAS’ Business Continuity 
Management Guidelines. Please also see paragraph 5.7 of the Guidelines on Outsourcing for more guidance. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
14
(j) 
ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations and track record in 
relation to its compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  
 
5.4.4 
The institution should ensure that the employees of the service provider undertaking 
any part of the outsourcing arrangement have been assessed to meet the institution’s hiring 
policies for the role they are performing, consistent with the criteria applicable to its own 
employees. The following are some non-exhaustive examples of what should be considered 
under this assessment: 
(a) 
whether they have been the subject of any proceedings of a disciplinary or 
criminal nature; 
(b) 
whether they have been convicted of any offence (in particular, that 
associated with a finding of fraud, misrepresentation or dishonesty); 
(c) 
whether they have accepted civil liability for fraud or misrepresentation; 
and 
(d) 
whether they are financially sound. 
 
Any adverse findings from this assessment should be considered in light of their relevance 
and impact to the outsourcing arrangement. 
 
5.4.5 
Due diligence undertaken during the assessment process should be documented and 
re-performed periodically as part of the monitoring and control processes of outsourcing 
arrangements. The due diligence process may vary depending on the nature, and extent of 
risk of the arrangement and impact to the institution in the event of a disruption to service or 
breach of security and confidentiality (e.g., reduced due diligence may be sufficient where the 
outsourcing arrangements are made within the institution’s group8). An institution should 
ensure that the information used for due diligence evaluation is sufficiently current. An 
institution should also consider the findings from the due diligence evaluation to determine 
the frequency and scope of audit on the service provider.  
5.5 
Outsourcing Agreement  
 
5.5.1 
Contractual 
terms 
and 
conditions 
governing 
relationships, 
obligations, 
responsibilities, rights and expectations of the contracting parties in the outsourcing 
arrangement should be carefully and properly defined in written agreements. They should 
                                                          
8 Please see paragraph 5.11 on arrangements relating to outsourcing within a group. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
15
also be vetted by a competent authority (e.g., the institutions’ legal counsel) on their legality 
and enforceability.  
 
5.5.2 
An institution should ensure that every outsourcing agreement addresses the risks 
identified at the risk evaluation and due diligence stages. Each outsourcing agreement should 
allow for timely renegotiation and renewal to enable the institution to retain an appropriate 
level of control over the outsourcing arrangement and the right to intervene with appropriate 
measures to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. It should at the very least, have 
provisions to address the following aspects of outsourcing:  
(a) 
scope of the outsourcing arrangement; 
(b) 
performance, operational, internal control and risk management standards; 
(c) 
confidentiality and security9; 
(d) 
business continuity management10; 
(e) 
monitoring and control11; 
(f) 
audit and inspection12; 
(g) 
Notification of adverse developments 
An institution should specify in its outsourcing agreement the type of events 
and the circumstances under which the service provider should report to 
the institution in order for an institution to take prompt risk mitigation 
measures and notify MAS of such developments under paragraph 4.2.1; 
(h) 
Dispute resolution  
An institution should specify in its outsourcing agreement the resolution 
process, events of default, and the indemnities, remedies and recourse of 
the respective parties in the agreement. The institution should ensure that 
its contractual rights can be exercised in the event of a breach of the 
outsourcing agreement by the service provider;  
(i) 
Default termination and early exit  
An institution should, have the right to terminate the outsourcing 
agreement in the event of default, or under circumstances where:  
(i) 
the service provider undergoes a change in ownership; 
                                                          
9 Refer to paragraph 5.6 
10 Refer to paragraph 5.7 
11 Refer to paragraph 5.8 
12 Refer to paragraph 5.9 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
16
(ii) 
the service provider becomes insolvent or goes into liquidation; 
(iii) the service provider goes into receivership or judicial management 
whether in Singapore or elsewhere;  
(iv) there has been a breach of security or confidentiality; or 
(v) 
there is a demonstrable deterioration in the ability of the service 
provider to perform the contracted service.  
The minimum period to execute a termination provision should be specified 
in the outsourcing agreement. Other provisions should also be put in place 
to ensure a smooth transition when the agreement is terminated or being 
amended. Such provisions may facilitate transferability of the outsourced 
services to a bridge-institution or a third party. Where the outsourcing 
agreement involves an intra-group entity, the agreement should be legally 
enforceable against the intra-group entity providing the outsourced service;  
(j) 
Sub-contracting  
An institution should retain the ability to monitor and control its outsourcing 
arrangements when a service provider uses a sub-contractor. An 
outsourcing agreement should contain clauses setting out the rules and 
limitations on sub-contracting. An institution should include clauses making 
the service provider contractually liable for the performance and risk 
management practices of its sub-contractor and for the sub-contractor’s 
compliance with the provisions in its agreement with the service provider, 
including the prudent practices set out in these Guidelines. The institution 
should ensure that the sub-contracting of any part of material outsourcing 
arrangements is subject to the institution’s prior approval; 
(k) 
Applicable Laws  
Agreements should include choice-of-law provisions, agreement covenants 
and jurisdictional covenants that provide for adjudication of disputes 
between the parties under the laws of a specific jurisdiction.  
 
5.5.3 
Each agreement should be tailored to address issues arising from country risks and 
potential obstacles in exercising oversight and management of the outsourcing arrangements 
made with a service provider outside Singapore13.  
 
                                                          
13 Refer to paragraph 5.10. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
17
5.6 
Confidentiality and Security  
 
5.6.1 
As public confidence in institutions is a cornerstone in the stability and reputation of 
the financial industry, it is vital that an institution satisfies itself that the service provider’s 
security policies, procedures and controls will enable the institution to protect the 
confidentiality and security of customer information.  
 
5.6.2 
An institution should be proactive in identifying and specifying requirements for 
confidentiality and security in the outsourcing arrangement. An institution should take the 
following steps to protect the confidentiality and security of customer information:  
(a) 
State the responsibilities of contracting parties in the outsourcing 
agreement to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of security policies 
and practices, including the circumstances under which each party has the 
right to change security requirements. The outsourcing agreement should 
also address: 
(i) 
the issue of the party liable for losses in the event of a breach of 
security or confidentiality and the service provider’s obligation to 
inform the institution; and  
(ii) 
the issue of access to and disclosure of customer information by the 
service provider. Customer information should be used by the service 
provider and its staff strictly for the purpose of the contracted service;  
(b) 
Disclose customer information to the service provider only on a need-to-
know basis; 
(c) 
Ensure the service provider is able to protect the confidentiality of customer 
information, documents, records, and assets, particularly where multi-
tenancy14 arrangements are present at the service provider; and  
(d) 
Review and monitor the security practices and control processes of the 
service provider on a regular basis, including commissioning audits or 
obtaining periodic expert reports on confidentiality, security adequacy and 
compliance in respect of the operations of the service provider, and 
requiring the service provider to disclose to the institution breaches of 
confidentiality in relation to customer information.  
                                                          
14 Multi-tenancy generally refers to a mode of operation adopted by service providers where a single computing 
infrastructure (e.g., servers, databases etc.) is used to serve multiple customers (tenants). 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
18
5.7 
Business Continuity Management  
 
5.7.1 
An institution should ensure that its business continuity is not compromised by 
outsourcing arrangements, in particular, of the operation of its critical systems as stipulated 
under the Technology Risk Management Notice. An institution should adopt the sound 
practices and standards contained in the Business Continuity Management (“BCM”) 
Guidelines issued by MAS, in evaluating the impact of outsourcing on its risk profile and for 
effective BCM. 
 
5.7.2 
In line with the BCM Guidelines, an institution should take steps to evaluate and 
satisfy itself that the interdependency risk arising from the outsourcing arrangement can be 
adequately mitigated such that the institution remains able to conduct its business with 
integrity and competence in the event of a service disruption or failure, or unexpected 
termination of the outsourcing arrangement or liquidation of the service provider. These 
should include taking the following steps:  
(a) 
Determine that the service provider has in place satisfactory business 
continuity plans (“BCP”) that are commensurate with the nature, scope and 
complexity of the outsourcing arrangement. Outsourcing agreements 
should contain BCP requirements on the service provider, in particular, 
recovery time objectives (“RTO”), recovery point objectives (“RPO”), and 
resumption operating capacities;  
(b) 
Proactively seek assurance on the state of BCP preparedness of the service 
provider, or participate in joint testing, where possible. It should ensure the 
service provider regularly tests its BCP plans and that the tests validate the 
feasibility of the RTO, RPO and resumption operating capacities. Such tests 
would serve to familiarise the institution and the service provider with the 
recovery processes as well as improve the coordination between the parties 
involved. The institution should require the service provider to notify it of 
any test finding that may affect the service provider’s performance. The 
institution should also require the service provider to notify it of any 
substantial changes in the service provider’s BCP plans and of any adverse 
development that could substantially impact the service provided to the 
institution; and  
(c) 
Ensure that there are plans and procedures in place to address adverse 
conditions or termination of the outsourcing arrangement such that the 
institution will be able to continue business operations and that all 
documents, records of transactions and information previously given to the 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
19
service provider should be promptly removed from the possession of the 
service provider or deleted, destroyed or rendered unusable. 
 
5.7.3 
For assurance on the functionality and effectiveness of its BCP plan, an institution 
should design and carry out regular, complete and meaningful BCP testing that is 
commensurate with the nature, scope and complexity of the outsourcing arrangement. For 
tests to be complete and meaningful, the institution should involve the service provider in the 
validation of its BCP and assessment of the awareness and preparedness of its own staff. 
Similarly, the institution should take part in its service providers’ BCP and disaster recovery 
exercises.  
 
5.7.4 
The institution should consider worst case scenarios in its business continuity plans. 
Some examples of these scenarios are unavailability of service provider due to unexpected 
termination of the outsourcing agreement, liquidation of the service provider and wide-area 
disruptions that result in collateral impact on both the institution and the service provider. 
Where the interdependency on an institution in the financial system is high15, the institution 
should maintain a higher state of business continuity preparedness. The identification of 
viable alternatives for resuming operations without incurring prohibitive costs is also essential 
to mitigate interdependency risk.  
5.8 
Monitoring and Control of Outsourcing Arrangements  
 
5.8.1 
An institution should establish a structure for the management and control of its 
outsourcing arrangements. Such a structure will vary depending on the nature and extent of 
risks in the outsourcing arrangements. As relationships and interdependencies in respect of 
outsourcing arrangements increase in materiality and complexity, a more rigorous risk 
management approach should be adopted. An institution also has to be more proactive in its 
relationship with the service provider (e.g., having frequent meetings) to ensure that 
performance, operational, internal control and risk management standards are upheld. An 
institution should ensure that outsourcing agreements with service providers contain clauses 
to address the institution’s monitoring and control of outsourcing arrangements.  
 
5.8.2 
An institution should put in place all the following measures for effective monitoring 
and control of any material outsourcing arrangement:  
(a) 
Maintain a register of all material outsourcing arrangements and ensure 
that the register is readily accessible for review by the board and senior 
                                                          
15 In MAS’ BCM Guidelines, these institutions are referred to as Significantly Important Institutions. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
20
management of the institution. Information maintained in the register 
should include those set out in Annex 3. The register should be updated 
promptly and form part of the oversight and governance reviews 
undertaken by the board and senior management of the institution, similar 
to those described in paragraph 5.2;  
(b) 
Establish multi-disciplinary outsourcing management groups with members 
from different risk and internal control functions including legal, compliance 
and finance, to ensure that all relevant technical issues and legal and 
regulatory requirements are met. The institution should allocate sufficient 
resources, in terms of both time and skilled manpower, to the management 
groups to enable its staff to adequately plan and oversee the entire 
outsourcing lifecycle; 
(c) 
Establish outsourcing management control groups to monitor and control 
the outsourced service on an ongoing basis. There should be policies and 
procedures to monitor service delivery and the confidentiality and security 
of customer information, for the purpose of gauging ongoing compliance 
with agreed service levels and the viability of the institution’s operations. 
Such monitoring should be regular and validated through the review of 
reports by auditors of the service provider or audits commissioned by the 
institution; 
(d) 
Periodic reviews, at least on an annual basis, on all material outsourcing 
arrangements. This is to ensure that the institution’s outsourcing risk 
management policies and procedures, and these Guidelines, are effectively 
implemented. Such reviews should ascertain the adequacy of internal risk 
management and management information systems established by the 
institution (e.g., assessing the effectiveness of processes and metrics used 
to evaluate the performance and security of the service provider) and 
highlight any deficiency in the institution’s systems of control;  
(e) 
Reporting policies and procedures  
Reports on the monitoring and control activities of the institution should be 
reviewed by its senior management 16  and provided to the board for 
information. The institution should ensure that monitoring metrics and 
performance data are not aggregated with those belonging to other 
customers of the service provider. The institution should also ensure that 
any adverse development arising in any outsourcing arrangement is brought 
                                                          
16 Refer to paragraph 5.2.3. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
21
to the attention of the senior management of the institution and service 
provider, or to the institution’s board, where warranted, on a timely basis. 
When adverse development occurs, prompt actions should be taken by an 
institution to review the outsourcing relationship for modification or 
termination of the agreement; and  
(f) 
Perform comprehensive pre- and post- implementation reviews of new 
outsourcing arrangements or when amendments are made to the 
outsourcing arrangements. If an outsourcing arrangement is materially 
amended, a comprehensive due diligence of the outsourcing arrangement 
should also be conducted. 
5.9 
Audit and Inspection  
 
5.9.1 
An institution’s outsourcing arrangements should not interfere with the ability of the 
institution to effectively manage its business activities or impede MAS in carrying out its 
supervisory functions and objectives.  
 
5.9.2 
An institution should include, in all its outsourcing agreements for material 
outsourcing arrangements, clauses that:  
(a) 
allow the institution to conduct audits on the service provider and its sub-
contractors, whether by its internal or external auditors, or by agents 
appointed by the institution; and to obtain copies of any report and finding 
made on the service provider and its sub-contractors, whether produced by 
the service provider’s or its sub-contractors’ internal or external auditors, or 
by agents appointed by the service provider and its sub-contractor, in 
relation to the outsourcing arrangement;  
(b) 
allow MAS, or any agent appointed by MAS, where necessary or expedient, 
to exercise the contractual rights of the institution to: 
(i) 
access and inspect the service provider and its sub-contractors, and 
obtain records and documents, of transactions, and information of the 
institution given to, stored at or processed by the service provider and 
its sub-contractors; and  
(ii)  
access any report and finding made on the service provider and its 
sub-contractors, whether produced by the service provider’s and its 
sub-contractors’ internal or external auditors, or by agents appointed 
by the service provider and its sub-contractors, in relation to the 
outsourcing arrangement. 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
22
5.9.3 
Outsourcing agreements for material outsourcing arrangements should also include 
clauses that require the service provider to comply, as soon as possible, with any request from 
MAS or the institution, to the service provider or its sub-contractors, to submit any reports 
on the security and control environment of the service provider and its sub-contractors to 
MAS, in relation to the outsourcing arrangement.  
 
5.9.4 
An institution should ensure that these expectations are met in its outsourcing 
arrangements with the service provider as well as any sub-contractor that the service provider 
may engage in the outsourcing arrangement, including any disaster recovery and backup 
service providers. MAS will provide the institution reasonable notice of its intent to exercise 
its inspection rights and share its findings with the institution where appropriate. 
 
5.9.5 
An institution should ensure that independent audits and/or expert assessments of 
all its outsourcing arrangements are conducted. In determining the frequency of audit and 
expert assessment, the institution should consider the nature and extent of risk and impact 
to the institution from the outsourcing arrangements. The scope of the audits and expert 
assessments should include an assessment of the service providers’ and its sub-contractors’ 
security17 and control environment, incident management process (for material breaches, 
service disruptions or other material issues) and the institution’s observance of these 
Guidelines in relation to the outsourcing arrangement. 
 
5.9.6 
The independent audit and/or expert assessment on the service provider and its sub-
contractors may be performed by the institution’s internal or external auditors, the service 
provider’s external auditors 18 or by agents appointed by the institution. The appointed 
persons should possess the requisite knowledge and skills to perform the engagement, and 
be independent of the unit or function performing the outsourcing arrangement. Senior 
management should ensure that appropriate and timely remedial actions are taken to 
address the audit findings19. Institutions and the service providers should have adequate 
processes in place to ensure that remedial actions are satisfactorily completed. Actions taken 
by the service provider to address the audit findings should be appropriately validated by the 
institution before closure. Where necessary, the relevant persons who possess the requisite 
knowledge and skills should be involved to validate the effectiveness of the security and 
control measures taken.  
                                                          
17 The security environment refers to both the physical and IT security environments. 
18 An institution should conduct its own audits to supplement the audits performed by the service provider’s 
auditors, where necessary. 
19 Please refer to para 5.2 on Responsibilities of Board and Senior Management 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
23
5.9.7 
Significant issues and concerns should be brought to the attention of the senior 
management of the institution and service provider, or to the institution’s board, where 
warranted, on a timely basis. Actions should be taken by the institution to review the 
outsourcing arrangement if the risk posed is no longer within the institution’s risk tolerance. 
  
5.9.8 
Copies of audit reports should be submitted by the institution to MAS. An institution 
should also, upon request, provide MAS with other reports or information on the institution 
and service provider that is related to the outsourcing arrangement.  
5.10 
Outsourcing Outside Singapore  
 
5.10.1 The engagement of a service provider in a foreign country, or an outsourcing 
arrangement whereby the outsourced function is performed in a foreign country, may expose 
an institution to country risk - economic, social and political conditions and events in a foreign 
country that may adversely affect the institution. Such conditions and events could prevent 
the service provider from carrying out the terms of its agreement with the institution. In its 
risk management of such outsourcing arrangements, an institution should take into account, 
as part of its due diligence, and on a continuous basis: 
(a) 
government policies; 
(b) 
political, social, economic conditions; 
(c) 
legal and regulatory developments in the foreign country; and 
(d) 
the institution’s ability to effectively monitor the service provider, and 
execute its business continuity management plans and exit strategy.  
The institution should also be aware of the disaster recovery arrangements and locations 
established by the service provider in relation to the outsourcing arrangement. As 
information and data could be moved to primary or backup sites located in foreign countries, 
the risks associated with the medium of transport, be it physical or electronic, should also be 
considered. 
 
5.10.2 Material outsourcing arrangements with service providers located outside Singapore 
should be conducted in a manner so as not to hinder MAS’ efforts to supervise the Singapore 
business activities of the institution (i.e., from its books, accounts and documents) in a timely 
manner, in particular:  
(a) 
An institution should, in principle, enter into outsourcing arrangements only 
with service providers operating in jurisdictions that generally uphold 
confidentiality clauses and agreements.  


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
24
(b) 
An institution should not enter into outsourcing arrangements with service 
providers in jurisdictions where prompt access to information by MAS or 
agents appointed by MAS to act on its behalf, at the service provider, may 
be impeded by legal or administrative restrictions. An institution must at 
least commit to retrieve information readily from the service provider 
should MAS request for such information. The institution should confirm in 
writing to MAS, that the institution has provided, in its outsourcing 
agreements, for MAS to have the rights of inspecting the service provider, 
as well as the rights of access to the institution and service provider’s 
information, reports and findings related to the outsourcing arrangement, 
as set out in paragraph 5.9. 
(c) 
An institution should notify MAS if any overseas authority were to seek 
access to its customer information or if a situation were to arise where the 
rights of access of the institution and MAS set out in paragraph 5.9, have 
been restricted or denied.  
5.11 
Outsourcing Within a Group  
 
5.11.1 These Guidelines are applicable to outsourcing arrangements with parties within an 
institution’s group. The expectations may be addressed within group-wide risk management 
policies and procedures. The institution would be expected to provide, when requested, 
information demonstrating the structure and processes by which its board and senior 
management discharge their role in the oversight and management of outsourcing risks on a 
group-wide basis. For an institution incorporated or established outside Singapore, the roles 
and responsibilities of the local management are set out in paragraph 5.2.5.  
 
5.11.2 Due diligence on an intra-group service provider may take the form of evaluating 
qualitative aspects of the service provider’s ability to address risks specific to the institution, 
particularly those relating to business continuity management, monitoring and control, audit 
and inspection, including confirmation on the right of access to be provided to MAS, to retain 
effective supervision over the institution, and compliance with local regulatory standards. 
The respective roles and responsibilities of each office in the outsourcing arrangement should 
be documented in writing in a service level agreement or an equivalent document.  
5.12 
Outsourcing of Internal Audit to External Auditors  
 
5.12.1 Where the outsourced service is the internal audit function of an institution, there 
are additional issues that an institution should deliberate upon. One of these is the lack of 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
25
independence or the appearance of impaired independence, when a service provider is 
handling multiple engagements for an institution, such as internal and external audits, and 
consulting work. There is doubt that the service provider, in its internal audit role, would 
criticise itself for the quality of the external audit or consultancy services provided to the 
institution. In addition, as operations of an institution could be complex and involve large 
transaction volumes and amounts, it should ensure service providers have the expertise to 
adequately complete the engagement. An institution should address these and other relevant 
issues before outsourcing the internal audit function. In addition, as a sound practice, 
institutions should not outsource their internal audit function to the institution’s external 
audit firm20. 
 
5.12.2 Before outsourcing the internal audit function to external auditors, an institution 
should satisfy itself that the external auditor would be in compliance with the relevant auditor 
independence standards of the Singapore accounting profession. 
6 
CLOUD COMPUTING 
 
6.1 
Cloud services (“CS”) are a combination of a business and delivery model that enable 
on-demand access to a shared pool of resources such as applications, servers, storage and 
network security. The service is typically delivered in the form of Software as a Service 
(“SaaS”), Platform as a Service (“PaaS”) and Infrastructure as a Service (“IaaS”).  
6.2 
CS can potentially offer a number of advantages, which include economies of scale, 
cost-savings, access to quality system administration well as operations that adhere to 
uniform security standards and best practices. CS may also be used to provide the flexibility 
and agility for institutions to scale up or pare down on computing resources quickly as usage 
requirements change, without major hardware and software outlay as well as lead-time. In 
addition, the distributed nature of CS may enhance system resilience during location-specific 
disasters or disruptions. 
 
6.3 
It has been noted that more and more institutions are adopting CS to fulfil their 
business and operational requirements. These CS deployments may be operated in-house or 
off-premises by service providers. While the latter can take the form of a private21 or public22 
cloud, there is a growing trend for institutions to adopt a combination of private and public 
                                                          
20 Any departure from this best practice should be limited to small institutions and should remain within the bounds of the 
applicable ethical standards for the statutory or external auditor. 
21 A cloud infrastructure operated solely for an organisation 
22 A cloud infrastructure made available to the general public or an industry group, and is owned by a third party 
service provider 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
26
clouds to create a hybrid cloud. The different cloud models provide for distinct operational 
and security trade-offs. 
 
6.4 
In the recent years, cloud technology has evolved and matured considerably and CS 
providers have become aware of the technology and security requirements of institutions to 
protect sensitive customer data. In this regard, a number of CS providers have implemented 
strong authentication, access controls, tokenisation techniques and data encryption to 
bolster security to meet institutions’ requirements.  
 
6.5 
MAS considers CS operated by service providers as a form of outsourcing and 
recognises that institutions may leverage on such a service to enhance their operations and 
service efficiency while reaping the benefits of CS’ scalable, standardised and secured 
infrastructure. 
 
6.6 
The types of risks in CS that confront institutions are not distinct from that of other 
forms of outsourcing arrangements. Institutions should perform the necessary due diligence 
and apply sound governance and risk management practices articulated in this set of 
guidelines when subscribing to CS.  
 
6.7 
Institutions should be aware of CS’ typical characteristics such as multi-tenancy, data 
commingling and the higher propensity for processing to be carried out in multiple locations. 
Hence, institutions should take active steps to address the risks associated with data access, 
confidentiality, integrity, sovereignty, recoverability, regulatory compliance and auditing. In 
particular, institutions should ensure that the service provider possesses the ability to clearly 
identify and segregate customer data using strong physical or logical controls. The service 
provider should have in place robust access controls to protect customer information and 
such access controls should survive the tenure of the contract of the CS.  
 
6.8 
Institutions are ultimately responsible and accountable for maintaining oversight of 
CS and managing the attendant risks of adopting CS, as in any other form of outsourcing 
arrangements. A risk-based approach should be taken by institutions to ensure that the level 
of oversight and controls are commensurate with the materiality of the risks posed by the CS.  
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
27
Annex 1 
 
EXAMPLES OF OUTSOURCING ARRANGEMENTS 
 
1 
The following are examples of some services that, when performed by a third party, 
would be regarded as outsourcing arrangements for the purposes of these Guidelines 
although they are not exhaustive:  
(a) 
application processing (e.g., loan origination, credit cards);  
(b) 
white-labelling arrangements such as for trading and hedging facilities;  
(c) 
middle and back office operations (e.g., electronic funds transfer, payroll 
processing, custody operations, quality control, purchasing, maintaining the 
register of participants of a collective investment scheme (CIS) and sending of 
accounts and reports to CIS participants, order processing, trade settlement and 
risk management);  
(d) 
business continuity and disaster recovery functions and activities;  
(e) 
claims administration (e.g., loan negotiations, loan processing, collateral 
management, collection of bad loans);  
(f) 
document processing (e.g., cheques, credit card and bill payments, bank 
statements, other corporate payments, customer statement printing);  
(g) 
information systems hosting (e.g., software-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service, 
infrastructure-as-a-service);  
(h) 
information systems management and maintenance (e.g., data entry and 
processing, data centres, data centre facilities management, end-user support, 
local area networks management, help desks, information technology security 
operations);  
(i) 
investment management (e.g., discretionary portfolio management, cash 
management);  
(j) 
management of policy issuance and claims operations by managing agents;  
(k) 
manpower management (e.g., benefits and compensation administration, staff 
appointment, training and development);  
(l) 
marketing and research (e.g., product development, data warehousing and 
mining, media relations, call centres, telemarketing);  
(m) professional services related to the business activities of the institution (e.g., 
accounting, internal audit, actuarial, compliance);  
(n) 
support services related to archival and storage of data and records; and 
(o) 
calculation of financial benchmarks. 
 
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
28
2 
The following arrangements would generally not be considered outsourcing 
arrangements:  
(a) 
Arrangements in which certain industry characteristics require the use of third-
party providers 
(i) 
maintenance of custody account with specified custodians as required 
under Regulation 27 of the Securities and Futures (Licensing and Conduct 
of Business) Regulations; 
(ii) 
telecommunication services and public utilities (e.g., electricity, SMS 
gateway services);  
(iii) 
postal services; 
(iv) 
market information services (e.g., Bloomberg, Moody’s, Standard & 
Poor’s);  
(v) 
common network infrastructure (e.g., Visa, MasterCard, MASNET+); 
(vi) 
clearing and settlement arrangements between clearing houses and 
settlement institutions and their members, and similar arrangements 
between members and non-members; 
(vii) 
global financial messaging infrastructure which are subject to oversight 
by relevant regulators (e.g., SWIFT); and 
(viii) 
correspondent banking services.  
 
(b) 
Introducer arrangements and arrangements that pertain to principal-agent 
relationships  
(i) 
sale of insurance policies by agents, and ancillary services relating to 
those sales; 
(ii) 
acceptance of business by underwriting agents; and 
(iii) 
introducer arrangements (where the institution does not have any 
contractual relationship with customers).  
 
(c) 
Arrangements that the institution is not legally or administratively able to 
provide 
(i) 
statutory audit and independent audit assessments;  
(ii) 
discreet advisory services (e.g., legal opinions, independent appraisals, 
trustees in bankruptcy, loss adjuster); and 
(iii) 
independent consulting (e.g., consultancy services for areas which the 
institution does not have the internal expertise to conduct) 
  
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
29
Annex 2 
 
MATERIAL OUTSOURCING 
 
1 
An institution should assess the materiality in an outsourcing arrangement. In assessing 
materiality, MAS recognises that qualitative judgment is involved and the circumstances faced 
by individual institutions may vary. Factors that an institution should consider include:  
(a) 
importance of the business activity to be outsourced (e.g., in terms of 
contribution to income and profit);  
(b) 
potential impact of the outsourcing on earnings, solvency, liquidity, funding and 
capital, and risk profile;  
(c) 
impact on the institution’s reputation and brand value, and ability to achieve its 
business objectives, strategy and plans, should the service provider fail to 
perform the service or encounter a breach of confidentiality or security (e.g., 
compromise of customer information); 
(d) 
impact on the institution’s customers, should the service provider fail to perform 
the service or encounter a breach of confidentiality or security; 
(e) 
impact on the institution’s counterparties and the Singapore financial market, 
should the service provider fail to perform the service; 
(f) 
cost of the outsourcing as a proportion of total operating costs of the institution;  
(g) 
cost of outsourcing failure, which will require the institution to bring the 
outsourced activity in-house or seek similar service from another service 
provider, as a proportion of total operating costs of the institution; 
(h) 
aggregate exposure to a particular service provider in cases where the institution 
outsources various functions to the same service provider; and  
(i) 
ability to maintain appropriate internal controls and meet regulatory 
requirements, if the service provider faces operational problems.  
 
2 
Outsourcing of all or substantially all of its risk management or internal control functions, 
including compliance, internal audit, financial accounting and actuarial (other than 
performing certification activities) is to be considered a material outsourcing arrangement.  
 
 
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
30
3 
An institution should undertake periodic reviews of its outsourcing arrangements to 
identify new outsourcing risks as they arise. An outsourcing arrangement that was previously 
not material may subsequently become material from incremental services outsourced to the 
same service provider or an increase in volume or change in nature of the service outsourced 
to the service provider. Outsourcing risks may also increase when the service provider sub-
contracts the service or makes significant changes to its sub-contracting arrangements.  
 
4 
An institution should consider materiality at both the institution’s level and as a group, 
i.e., together with the institution’s branches and corporations under its control. 
 
 


GUIDELINES ON OUTSOURCING 
 
 
 
31
Annex 3 
 
REGISTER OF OUTSOURCING ARRANGEMENTS 
 
1 
An institution should maintain an updated register of all existing outsourcing 
arrangements in the format as per the template available from MAS website. 
